
_A Selected Bibliography_

_Compiled by_ DOROTHY B. PORTER

_Librarian of the Negro Collection, Howard University_

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS · WASHINGTON · 1970

L.C. Card 78-606085

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing
Office, Washington D.C. 20402.

Price $3.25




CONTENTS


  · PREFACE

  · NOTE TO THE USER

  · KEY TO SYMBOLS

  · 01—REFERENCE SOURCES—Bibliographies, Guides, Indexes

  · 02—REFERENCE SOURCES—Encyclopedias, Biographical Dictionaries,
    Annuals

  · 03—ART

  · 04—BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY—Collective

  · 05—BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY—Individual

  · 06—CIVIL RIGHTS

  · 07—COOKERY

  · 08—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

  · 09—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Business

  · 10—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Employment

  · 11—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Housing

  · 12—EDUCATION

  · 13—ENTERTAINMENT

  · 14—FOLK-LORE AND FOLK-TALES

  · 15—HISTORY

  · 16—HISTORY—Slavery

  · 17—HISTORY—Reconstruction

  · 18—LEGAL STATUS

  · 19—LITERATURE—History and Criticism

  · 20—LITERATURE—Anthologies

  · 21—LITERATURE—Essays and Addresses

  · 22—LITERATURE—Fiction

  · 23—LITERATURE—Humor

  · 24—LITERATURE—Plays

  · 25—LITERATURE—Poetry

  · 26—MEDICINE AND HEALTH

  · 27—MILITARY Service

  · 28—MUSIC

  · 29—ORGANIZATIONS

  · 30—POLITICS

  · 31—PRESS

  · 32—RACE RELATIONS

  · 33—RACE RELATIONS—Riots

  · 34—REGIONAL STUDIES

  · 35—RELIGION AND THE CHURCH

  · 36—SOCIAL CONDITIONS

  · 37—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Children

  · 38—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Crime and Delinquency

  · 39—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Family

  · 40—SPORTS

  · INDEX



                     THE NEGRO IN THE UNITED STATES



                              BIBLIOGRAPHY





PREFACE


The career of Daniel Alexander Payne Murray, who served as a member of
the staff in various capacities "up to an assistant librarian" from 1871
to 1922, is a natural starting point for a discussion of Negro materials
in the Library of Congress. While serving in his first position in the
Library, as a personal assistant to the Librarian, Ainsworth R.
Spofford, Mr. Murray undertook the systematic study of "the origin and
historical growth of the colored race throughout the civilized world,"
which he hoped would result in an encyclopedic history of his race.
Almost 30 years later, he was chosen by Herbert Putnam, then just
beginning his career as Librarian, to respond to a request from
Ferdinand W. Peck, Commissioner General of the United States to the
Paris exposition of 1900, that a collection of books and pamphlets by
Afro-American authors be made a feature of the American exhibit at the
exposition. Within a period of 2 weeks, Mr. Murray prepared a
preliminary list of 223 works written by 152 Negro authors. The purpose
of this list was to aid in securing a copy of "every book and pamphlet
in existence, by a Negro Author, the same to be used in connection with
the exhibit of Negro Authorship in the Paris Exposition of 1900, and
later placed in the Library of Congress."

It was soon discovered that, owing to Dr. Spofford’s foresight, the
Library of Congress was "uncommonly rich in such books and pamphlets,"
but "no little difficulty was encountered then and subsequently in
identifying them." By the time the world exposition at Paris opened in
May 1900, however, Mr. Murray had located 1,100 titles written by Negro
authors, of which about 500 were forwarded to the exposition. Thomas J.
Calloway, special agent for the U.S. Commission at the exposition, wrote
that "the most creditable showing in the exhibit is by Negro authors
collected by Mr. Daniel Murray of the library of Congress."

After the close of the Paris exposition, Mr. Murray continued to collect
works by Afro-American, Afro-European, and West Indian authors and to
amass a varied collection of Afro-Americana. At his death in 1925, the
library of Congress received by provision of his will a unique
collection of some "1,448 volumes and pamphlets, 14 broadsides, and 1
map, with the idea that it should form part of the material especially
selected by him for exhibit purposes." The books that had been sent to
the Paris exposition were kept together upon their return to the
Library. This small collection, along with Mr. Murray’s bequest and a
few volumes presented to the library by Mrs. Anna Murray after her
husband’s death, became the "Colored Author Collection." Many of the
titles have since been cataloged and added to the general collections.

_The Preliminary List of Books and Pamphlets by Negro Authors, for Paris
Exposition and Library of Congress_ (1900), compiled by Daniel Murray,
appears to have been the first effort on the part of the Library to draw
attention to works by and about Negroes.

In 1906 Appleton Prentiss Clark Griffin, chief of the Division of
Bibliography, directed the compilation of a _Select List of References
on the Negro Question_, published by the library. It contained entries
for 232 books and 286 periodical articles published during the period
1879-1906. The library also published in the same year a _List of
Discussions of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments_, which comprised
103 entries. Both bibliographies included titles relating primarily to
Negro suffrage and the Negro in the South and were compiled to "meet
requests by letter upon topics of current interest."

In 1940, for the 75th anniversary of the proclamation of the 13th
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which abolished
slavery, the Library prepared and issued a bibliography of its special
materials on the Negro. In connection with this anniversary, the Library
also mounted an exhibition of books, manuscripts, and works of art and
arranged a series of concerts. The festival of music and the exhibits
that opened on December 18, 1940, vividly presented the contribution of
the American Negro to American culture.

Without question both scholars and the general public are aware that the
Library of Congress has extensive holdings on the Negro, not only
printed books and periodicals but also manuscripts, music, prints,
photographs, motion pictures, and sound recordings. This awareness is
reflected in the steady flow of requests for bibliographies and other
guides to Negro studies that the Library receives. The factors that
stimulate such requests are rooted in the national—indeed, the
worldwide—interest in the American Negro which recent social and
cultural events in this country have intensified. For many years the
Library has responded to this interest by issuing from time to time
typed lists relating to various aspects of Negro life.

The mounting interest in Negro history and culture, manifested
particularly by the introduction of courses in these subjects in high
school, college, and university curricula, has given rise to a demand
for lists of books that can be used to support such studies. The present
bibliography is designed to meet the current needs of students,
teachers, librarians, researchers, and the general public for
introductory guidance to the study of the Negro in the United States.

This bibliography is selective rather than exhaustive. Among the topics
covered are the urban Negro, relations between the races, discriminatory
practices in all areas, and efforts to obtain political and economic
freedom, as well as the education and cultural history of the Negro, his
religious life, the social conditions under which he lives, and his
historical past. Included are works depicting the lives of outstanding
Negroes—abolitionists, fugitive slaves, educators, civil rights leaders,
scientists, journalists, religious leaders, artists, athletes, and
literary figures.

The selection of many of the titles, especially in the fields of
literature and history, was based on the frequency of requests for
particular works in large library collections on the Negro and on their
inclusion in the numerous bibliographies and reading lists now being
compiled for use in junior colleges, colleges, and universities. In
addition, bibliographic lists and essays appended to such works as _From
Slavery to Freedom_, by John Hope Franklin; _North of Slavery_, by Leon
F. Litwack; _The Burden of Race: a Documentary History of Negro-White
Relations in America_, by Gilbert Osofsky; _The Negro in the Civil War_,
by Benjamin Quarles; _The Black Power Revolt_, edited by Floyd B.
Barbour; and _The Negro in the United States_, by E. Franklin Frazier,
were consulted. Use was also made of previously published bibliographies
such as Monroe Work’s _Bibliography of the Negro in Africa and America_
and Erwin A. Salk’s _A Layman’s Guide to Negro History_.

While some books written especially for children and young people are
included, and some of the other publications cited are well adapted to
their use, no systematic effort was made to represent material of this
type. Lists such as Miles M. Jackson’s _Bibliography of Negro History &
Culture for Young Readers_ may be used as guides in this field.

Identification of writers by race has not been attempted except in the
section on fiction, which lists only novels and short stories written by
representative Negro authors. While the writings of white novelists are
not cited, the importance of the treatment of Negro characters and the
educational, moral, and artistic value of works by such authors as
Howard Fast, William Faulkner, Harper Lee, Du Bose Heyward, Julia
Peterkin, Lillian Smith, Harriet Beecher Stowe, T. S. Stribling, and
Mark Twain are undisputed. Apart from fiction, the publications of both
white and Negro writers are included throughout the bibliography.

The compiler gratefully acknowledges the invaluable editorial assistance
of Mary Jane Gibson, assistant head of the Bibliography and Reference
Correspondence Section, General Reference and Bibliography Division,
Library of Congress. Miss Gibson also prepared the index. The compiler
wishes to express her appreciation as well to Ruth S. Freitag, head of
the Bibliography and Reference Correspondence Section, for helpful
suggestions and for assistance in indexing and proofreading, and to
Robert H. Land, chief of the General Reference and Bibliography
Division, for emphasizing the need for the bibliography and offering
encouragement while the work was in progress.


                                                       Dorothy B. Porter


_April 1969_




NOTE TO THE USER


_Scope._ The emphasis of this bibliography is on recent monographs in
the collections of the library of Congress, although a number of
important older works, a few periodicals, and several titles from the
holdings of other American libraries are included.

_Arrangement._ Entries are arranged alphabetically by author under broad
subject headings that reveal the Negro’s part in numerous aspects of
American life, culture, and history. An index of names and subjects is
provided.

_Annotations._ Entries have been given brief annotations where
clarification seemed necessary. Because of the increasing importance for
the building of library collections of scholarly reprints of long
unavailable classics in Negro literature and history, indication of
reprint editions has been made where possible.

_Call numbers and location symbols._ Location of items is indicated
either by a Library of Congress call number or location symbol, or, for
material in another library, by the National Union Catalog symbol for
that library. A key to the symbols used is given on the next page.




KEY TO SYMBOLS


    DHU  Howard University, Washington, D.C.

    DLC  Library of Congress (uncataloged)

    DLC-LL  Library of Congress, Law Library (unclassified)

    FU  University of Florida, Gainesville

    ICN  Newberry Library, Chicago, Ill.

    ICU  University of Chicago

    MH  Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

    NNC  Columbia University, New York, N.Y.

    NcD  Duke University, Durham, N.C.

    NcU  University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

    PSt  Pennsylvania State University, University Park

    TxU  University of Texas, Austin

    Vi  Virginia State Library, Richmond


                             *BIBLIOGRAPHY*





01—REFERENCE SOURCES—Bibliographies, Guides, Indexes


      1
    Abrahamson, Julia. Race relations; a selected list of readings
    on racial and cultural minorities in the United States, with
    special emphasis on Negroes, by Julia Waxman. Chicago, Julius
    Rosenwald Fund, 1945. 47 p. [Z1361.N39A3] [TR: Waxman, Julia.
    (New York State Library C, 016.3231, W35).]

      2
    Baker, Augusta. Books about Negro life for children. Rev. New
    York, New York Public Library, 1963. 33 p. Z1361.N39B2 1963
      A new edition is in preparation.

      3
    Bennett, Elaine C. Calendar of Negro-related documents in the
    records of the Committee for Congested Production Areas in the
    National Archives. Prepared for the Committee on Negro Studies
    of the American Council of Learned Societies: Washington,
    American Council of Learned Societies, 1949. 100 leaves.
    E185.6.B47

      3a
    Bibliographic survey: the Negro in print, v. 1+ May 1965+
    Washington, Negro Bibliographic and Research Center, bimonthly.
    Z1361.N39N39
      At head of title, May 1965-Mar. 1968: Bibliographic Survey.
      Title varies: May 1965-Mar. 1968, _The Negro in Print_.
      An annotated list of fiction and nonfiction, paperbacks, and
      books for young readers, with occasional periodical articles
      and references on poetry and art.

      4
    Brooks, Alexander D. Civil rights and liberties in the United
    States, an annotated bibliography. With a selected list of
    fiction and audio-visual materials collected by Albert A.
    Alexander and Virginia H. Ellison. New York, Civil Liberties
    Educational Foundation, c1962. 151 p. Z7164.L6B7

      5
    Brown, Warren H. Check list of Negro newspapers in the United
    States (1827-1946). Jefferson City, Mo., School of Journalism,
    Lincoln University, 1946. 37 p. (Lincoln University journalism
    series, no. 2) [Z6951.B88] Z6944.N39B7

      6
    Chapman, Abraham. The Negro in American literature, and a
    bibliography of literature by and about Negro Americans. Stevens
    Point, Wisconsin State University [c1966] 135 p. (Wisconsin
    Council of Teachers of English. Special publication, no. 15)
    DHU; TxU

      7
    Dickinson, Donald C. A bio-bibliography of Langston Hughes,
    1902-1967. With a preface by Arna Bontemps. [Hamden, Conn.]
    Archon Books, 1967. 267 p. port. PS3515.U274Z62
      An expansion of the author’s dissertation, University of
      Michigan.
      Bibliography: p. 257-262.

      8
    Dodds, Barbara. Negro literature for high school students.
    [Champaign, Ill.] National Council of Teachers of English [1968]
    157 p. Z1361.N39D62 [TR: Stanford, Barbara Dodds.]

      9
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ A select bibliography of the Negro
    American. A compilation made under the direction of Atlanta
    University, together with the Proceedings of the Tenth
    Conference for the Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta
    University, on May 30, 1905. 3d ed. Atlanta, Atlanta University
    Press, 1905. 71 p. (Atlanta University publications, no. 10)
    E185.5.A88 v. 10 [Z1361.N39D85]

      10
    Dumond, Dwight L. A bibliography of antislavery in America. Ann
    Arbor, University of Michigan Press [1961] 119 p. Z1249.S6D8

      11
    Ellis, Ethel M. V., _comp._ The American Negro: a selected
    checklist of books. Washington, Negro Collection, Howard
    University Library, 1968. 46 leaves. Z1361.N39E4 [TR: Ellis,
    Ethel M. Vaughan.]

      12
    Guzman, Jessie P. George Washington Carver, a classified
    bibliography. Tuskegee Institute, Ala. Dept. of Records and
    Research, Tuskegee Institute, 1953 [i.e. 1954] 26 p. (Records
    and research pamphlet no. 3) Z8150.7.G8 [TR: Guzman, Jessie
    Parkhurst]

      13
    Hall, Woodrow W. A bibliography of the Tuskegee gerrymander
    protest; pamphlets, magazine and newspaper articles
    chronologically arranged. Tuskegee Institute, Ala., Dept. of
    Records and Research, Tuskegee Institute, 1960. 54 leaves.
    (Records and research pamphlet no. 8) DLC [TR: Z7164.R4H28]

      14
    Hampton Institute, _Hampton, Va. Collis P. Huntington Library._
    A classified catalogue of the Negro collection in the Collis P.
    Huntington Library, Hampton Institute. Compiled by workers of
    the Writers’ Program of the Works Projects Administration in the
    State of Virginia. Sponsored by Hampton Institute. [n.p.] 1940.
    255, [35] p. Z1361.N39H3 [TR: Collis P. Huntington Library
    (Hampton Institute) 1971]

      15
    Haywood, Charles. A bibliography of North American folklore and
    folksong. 2d rev. ed. v. 1. The American people north of Mexico,
    including Canada. New York, Dover Publications [1961] xxx, 748
    p. maps (on lining papers) Z5984.U5H32 v. 1
      Section on the Negro: p. 430-560.

      16
    Heartman, Charles F. Phillis Wheatley (Phillis Peters); a
    critical attempt and a bibliography of her writings. New York,
    For the author, 1915. 44 p. facsims. (part fold.), port.
    (Heartman’s historical series, no. 7) PS866.W5Z6
      "The following essay was written by me originally in German
      ... now translated by another person."
      "A short list of books with contents relating to Phillis
      Wheatley": [1] p. at end.

      17
    Historical Records Survey. _District of Columbia._ Calendar of
    the writings of Frederick Douglass in the Frederick Douglass
    memorial home, Anacostia, D. C. Prepared by District of Columbia
    Historical Records Survey, Division of Professional and Service
    Projects, Work Projects Administration. Sponsored by the Board
    of Commissioners of the District of Columbia. Washington,
    District of Columbia Historical Records Survey, 1940.93 leaves.
    Z6616.D7H57

      18
    Howard University, _Washington, D. C. Library. Moorland
    Foundation_. The Arthur B. Spingarn collection of Negro authors.
    Washington [1948] [12] p. facsim. Z733.W31M6

      18a
    Hussey, Edith L., Mary Henderson, _and_ Barbara Marx. The Negro
    American; a reading list. [New York, Dept. of Racial and
    Cultural Relations, National Council of Churches of Christ in
    the USA, 1957] 40 p. (Interracial publication, no. 96)
    Z1361.N39I5 no. 96

      18b
    Index to periodical articles by and about Negroes. Mar. 1950+
    Boston, G. K. Hall, quarterly. A13.O4 [TR: E185.5.I55M]
      Vols. for 1961+ called v. 2+
      Title varies: Mar. 1950-summer 1954, _Index to Selected Negro
      Periodicals_.—Fall 1954-fall 1965, _Index to Selected
      Periodicals_.
      Vols. for 1960+ compiled by Hallie Q. Brown Memorial Library,
      Central State College, Wilberforce, Ohio, and the Schomburg
      Collection, New York Public Library.
      Vols. for Mar. 1950-fall 1959 issued by the Library, Central
      State College (called Mar.-Dec. 1950 College of Education and
      Industrial Arts).
      Decennial cumulation, 1950-59; annual cumulation, 1960+

      19
    Jackson, Miles M. A bibliography of Negro history & culture for
    young readers. Assisted by Mary W. Cleaves and Alma L. Gray.
    [Pittsburgh] University of Pittsburgh Press, published for
    Atlanta University [c1969] xxxi, 134 p. Z1361.N39J3

      20
    Johnson, Clifton H., _and_ Carroll G. Barber. The Negro
    American, a selected and annotated bibliography for high schools
    and junior colleges. Nashville, Tenn., Amistad Research Center
    [c1968] 113 p. DHU

      21
    Kaplan, Louis. A bibliography of American autobiographies,
    compiled by Louis Kaplan in association with James Tyler Cook,
    Clinton E. Colby, Jr. [and] Daniel C. Haskell. Madison,
    University of Wisconsin Press, 1961. 372 p. Z1224.K3
      See the index for autobiographies relating to the Negro.

      22
    Koblitz, Minnie W. The Negro in schoolroom literature; resource
    materials for the teacher of kindergarten through the sixth
    grade. [New York, Center for Urban Education, 1967?] 67 p.
    Z1037.K6
      "Research ... was performed pursuant to a contract with the
      United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,
      Office of Education."

      23
    Lancaster, Emmer M. A guide to Negro marketing information.
    [Washington] U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Business and Defense
    Services Administration; [for sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S.
    Govt. Print. Off.] 1966. 50 p. illus. HC110.C6L3
      Bibliography: p. 7-20.

      24
    Lewinson, Paul. A guide to documents in the National Archives:
    for Negro studies, compiled for the Committee on Negro Studies
    of the American Council of Learned Societies. Washington, 1947.
    28 p. (American Council of Learned Societies Devoted to
    Humanistic Studies. Committee on Negro Studies. Publications,
    no. 1) NNC

      25
    McNamee, Lawrence F. Dissertations in English and American
    literature; theses accepted by American, British, and German
    universities, 1865-1964. New York, Bowker, 1968. 1124 p.
    Z5O53.M32
      Chapter 32 is on Negro literature.

      26
    Merriam, Alan P. A bibliography of jazz. With the assistance of
    Robert J. Brenford. Philadelphia, American Folklore Society,
    1954. 145 p. (Publications of the American Folklore Society.
    Bibliographical series, v. 4, 1954) ML128.J3M4

      27
    Miller, Elizabeth W. The Negro in America; a bibliography
    compiled for the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. With a
    foreword by Thomas F. Pettigrew. Cambridge, Harvard University
    Press, 1966. xvii, 190 p. Z1361.N39M5

      28
    Murray, Daniel A. P. Preliminary list of books and pamphlets by
    Negro authors, for Paris Exposition and Library of Congress.
    [Washington, U.S. Commission to the Paris Exposition, 1900] 8 p.
    Z1361.N39M9

      29
    National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
    _Education Dept._ Integrated school books; a descriptive
    bibliography of 399 pre-school and elementary school texts and
    story books. New York, NAACP Special Contribution Fund, 1967. 55
    p. Z5814.D5N3

      30
    National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States
    of America. _Division of Christian Education._ Negro heritage
    resource guide; a bibliography of the Negro in contemporary
    America. [New York, Council Press, c1967] 21 p. Z1361.N39N16

      31
    National Urban League. _Dept. of Research and Community
    Projects._ Selected bibliography on the Negro. New York, Dept.
    of Research, National Urban League, 1937. 13 leaves.
    Z1361.N39N18
      —— —— Supplement, no. 1. Compiled by the Dept. of Research,
      National Urban League. [New York, 1938] 13 leaves.
      Z1361.N39N18 Suppl.

      32
    New Jersey Library Association. _Bibliography Committee._ New
    Jersey and the Negro; a bibliography, 1715-1966. [Trenton] 1967.
    196 p. Z1361.N39N45

      33
    New York Public Library. The Negro; a list of significant books.
    Compiled by Dorothy R. Homer. 8th rev. ed. New York, 1960. 25 p.
    DHU [TR: Z1361.N39N52 1965]

      34
    New York. Public Library. _Schomburg Collection of Negro
    Literature and History._ Dictionary catalog. Boston, G.K. Hall,
    1962. 9 v. (8473 p.) Z881.N592S35
      A first supplement (2 v.) was published in 1968.

      35
    Oberlin College. _Library._ A classified catalogue of the
    collection of anti-slavery propaganda in the Oberlin College
    Library, compiled by Geraldine Hopkins Hubbard, edited by Julian
    S. Fowler. [Oberlin] 1932. 84 p. (_Its_ Bulletin, v. 2, no. 3)
    Z1249.S6O2
      "Formed the bibliographical portion of a thesis submitted in
      June, 1932, in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the
      degree of master of arts at Oberlin College."—Preface.
      "The main list contains all printed items ... which can be
      classed as American anti-slavery propaganda published before
      January 1, 1863....
      An appendix describes the smaller collections of pro-slavery
      literature and of the British anti-slavery propaganda."

      36
    Porter, Dorothy B. Early American Negro writings: a
    bibliographical study. _In_ Bibliographical Society of America.
    Papers, v. 39, 3d quarter 1945: 192-268. Z1008.B51P, v. 39 [TR:
    Wesley, Dorothy Porter, 1905-1995.]

      37
    Porter, Dorothy B. North American Negro poets, a bibliographical
    check-list of their writings, 1760-1944. Hattiesburg, Miss.,
    Book Farm, 1945. 90 p. ([Heartman’s historical series, no. 70])
    Z1361.N39P6 [TR: Wesley, Dorothy Porter, 1905-1995.]
      A new edition is in preparation.

      37a
    Porter, Dorothy B., _and_ Ethel M. V. Ellis, _comps._ The
    journal of Negro education. Index to vols. 1-31, 1932-1962.
    Washington, Howard University Press, 1963. 82 p. DHU

      38
    [Pride, Armistead S.] Negro newspapers on microfilm; a selected
    list. Washington, Library of Congress, Photoduplication Service,
    1953. 8 p. Z6944.N39P7

      39
    Princeton University. _Program in American Civilization._ The
    Negro in America; bibliographies, conference 1966. [Lincoln
    University, Pa., American Studies Institute, c1966] 90 p. DLC

      40
    Reid, Ira De A. Negro youth, their social and economic
    backgrounds; a selected bibliography of unpublished studies,
    1900-1938. Washington, American Youth Commission of the American
    Council on Education [c1939] 71 leaves. Z1361.N39R35
      Largely unpublished theses of a selected list of colleges and
      universities in the United States.

      41
    Reisner, Robert G. The literature of jazz, a selective
    bibliography. With an introduction by Marshall W. Stearns. [2d
    ed. rev. and enl.] New York, New York Public Library, 1959. 63
    p. ML128.J3R4 1959

      42
    Rollins, Charlemae H., _ed._ We build together; a reader’s guide
    to Negro life and literature for elementary and high school use.
    Contributors: Augusta Baker [and others] 3d ed. [Champaign,
    Ill., National Council of Teachers of English, 1967] xxviii, 71
    p. Z1361.N39R77 1967 [TR: [1941?]]

      43
    Ross, Frank A., _and_ Louise V. Kennedy. A bibliography of Negro
    migration. New York, Columbia University Press, 1935. 251 p.
    Z1361.N39R8
      Annotated.
      "The fifth volume produced under the project, Negro Migration,
      conducted in the Department of Sociology at Columbia
      University, under subsidy by the Social Science Research
      Council, and the Columbia University Council for Research in
      the Social Sciences."—Preface.
      "Bibliographies": p. [191]-194.

      44
    Salk, Erwin A. A layman’s guide to Negro history. Chicago,
    Quadrangle Books, 1966. xviii, 170 p. port. Z1361.N39S23

      45
    Scally, Mary Anthony, _Sister_. Negro Catholic writers,
    1900-1943, bio-bibliography. Detroit, W. Romig [1945] 152 p.
    Z1361.N39S35
      "Sources": p. 11-12.

      46
    Schomburg, Arthur A., _comp._ A bibliographical checklist of
    American Negro poetry. New York, L. F. Heartman, 1916. 57 p.
    (Bibliographica americana; a series of monographs, v. 2)
    Z1231.P7S3  [TR: Z1361.N39S37]
      "Bibliography of the poetical works of Phillis Wheatley
      (copyrighted by Charles F. Heartman) [reprinted from
      Heartman’s 'Phillis Wheatley (Phillis Peters)’]": p. 47-57.

      47
    Sieg, Vera. The Negro problem: a bibliography. Madison, Wis.,
    1908. 22 p. (Wisconsin Free Library Commission. American social
    questions, no. 1) Z7164.S66A5, no. 1 [Z1361.N39S5]
      Prepared in fulfillment of requirements for graduation,
      Wisconsin Library School.

      48
    Spangler, Earl. Bibliography of Negro history: selected and
    annotated entries, general and Minnesota. Minneapolis, Ross and
    Haines, 1963. 101 p. Z1361.N39S65

      49
    Texas. Southern University, _Houston. Library_. Heartman Negro
    collection; catalogue, v. 1. Houston [1955?] 1 v. (unpaged)
    [Z881.H84]

      50
    Thompson, Edgar T., _and_ Alma M. Thompson. Race and region, a
    descriptive bibliography compiled with special reference to the
    relations between whites and Negroes in the United States.
    Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1949. 194 p.
    Z1361.N39T5
      Material in the libraries of Duke University, the University
      of North Carolina, and North Carolina College.

      51
    Treworgy, Mildred L., _and_ Paul B. Foreman. Negroes in the
    United States; a bibliography of materials for schools,
    approvable for purchase in Pennsylvania under NDEA provisions.
    With a supplement of recent materials on other American minority
    peoples. University Park, Pa. [Available from the Office of the
    Director of Libraries, Pennsylvania State University] 1967. 93
    p. (Pennsylvania. State University. Libraries. School series,
    no. 1) PSt

      52
    Tuskegee Institute. _Dept. of Records and Research._ A
    bibliography of the student movement protesting segregation and
    discrimination, 1960. Tuskegee Institute, Ala., 1961. 10 leaves.
    (_Its_ Records and research pamphlet no. 9) Z7164.R12T8

      53
    Tuskegee Institute. _Dept. of Records and Research._ A selected
    list of references relating to the elementary, secondary, and
    higher education of Negroes, 1949 to June 1955. [Tuskegee
    Institute, Ala.] 1955. 18 leaves. (_Its_ Records and research
    pamphlet no. 5) Z1361.N39T8

      54
    Tuskegee Institute. _Dept. of Records and Research._ A selected
    list of references relating to the Negro teacher, 1949 to June
    1955. [Tuskegee Institute, Ala.] 1955. 3 leaves. (_Its_ Records
    and research pamphlet no. 7) Z1361.N39T83

      55
    U.S. _Dept. of Housing and Urban Development. Library._
    Bibliography of Robert C. Weaver. [Washington, 1966] 9 leaves.
    Z7164.H8U446

      56
    U.S. _Library of Congress._ 75 years of freedom; commemoration
    of the 75th anniversary of the proclamation of the 13th
    amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The Library
    of Congress. [Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1943] 108 p.
    col. plates. E185.6.U597
      "The contribution of the American Negro to American culture
      was the theme of a series of exhibits and concerts in the
      Library of Congress commencing on December 18th, the 75th
      anniversary of the proclamation of the Thirteenth amendment,
      which ended slavery in the United States."—p. v.

      57
    U.S. _Library of Congress. Division of Bibliography._ List of
    discussions of the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments with
    special reference to Negro suffrage. Compiled under the
    direction of Appleton Prentiss Clark Griffin. Washington, Govt.
    Print. Off., 1906. 18 p. [Z881.U5] Z1361.N39U5

      58
    U.S. _Library of Congress. Division of Bibliography._ Select
    list of references on the Negro question. Compiled under the
    direction of Appleton Prentiss Clark Griffin. 2d issue, with
    additions. Washington, Govt. Print. Off., 1906. 61 p. [Z881.U5]
    Z1361.N39U6 1906

      59
    Weinberg, Meyer. School integration; a comprehensive classified
    bibliography of 3,100 references. Chicago, Integrated Education
    Associates, 1967. 137 p. Z5814.D5W4

      60
    Welsch, Erwin K. The Negro in the United States; a research
    guide. Bloomington, Indiana University Press, 1965. 142 p.
    Z1361.N39W4 1965
      Bibliography: p. 108-138.

      61
    Whiteman, Maxwell. A century of fiction by American Negroes,
    1853-1952; a descriptive bibliography. Philadelphia, 1955. 64 p.
    Z1361.N39W5

      62
    Williams, Daniel T., _and_ Carolyn L. Redden. The Black Muslims
    in the United States: a selected bibliography. [Tuskegee, Ala.]
    Hollis Burke Frissell Library, Tuskegee Institute, 1964. 19
    leaves. Z7835.B5W5

      63
    Work, Monroe N. A bibliography of the Negro in Africa and
    America. New York, Argosy-Antiquarian, 1965. xxi, 698 p.
    Z5118.N4W6 1965
      Reprint of the 1928 ed.
      "A bibliography of bibliographies on the Negro in the United
      States": pt. 2, p. [630]-636.




02—REFERENCE SOURCES—Encyclopedias, Biographical Dictionaries, Annuals


      64
    Bicknell, Marguerite E., _and_ Margaret C. McCulloch. Guide to
    information about the Negro and Negro-white adjustment.
    [Memphis, Brunner Print. Co.] 1943. 39 p. E185.61.B5

      65
    Davis, John P., _ed._ The American Negro reference book.
    Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1966] xxii, 969 p. illus.
    E185.D25
      Includes bibliographical references.

      66
    Directory of U.S. Negro newspapers, magazines & periodicals.
    1966. [New York] U.S. Negro World. 30 leaves. Z6944.N39D5
      Editor: F. B. Sawyer.

      67
    Ebony. The Negro handbook, compiled by the editors of Ebony.
    Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1966. 535 p. E185.E2
      Includes bibliographies.

      68
    Encyclopedia of the Negro, preparatory volume with reference
    lists and reports, by W. E. B. DuBois and Guy B. Johnson;
    prepared with the cooperation of E. Irene Diggs, Agnes C. L.
    Donohugh, Guion Johnson [and others]. Introduction by Anson
    Phelps Stokes. Rev. and enl. ed. New York, Phelps-Stokes Fund,
    1946. 215 p. group port. HT1581.E5 1946
      "Bibliography of bibliographies": p. [191]-198.

      69
    Fleming, George J., _and_ Christian E. Burckel. Who’s who in
    colored America. An illustrated biographical dictionary of
    notable living persons of African descent in the United States.
    7th ed. New York, C. E. Burckel, 1950. 648 p. illus. DHU
      —— —— Supplement. New York, C. E. Burckel, 1950. 34 p. DHU

      70
    [Gibson, John W.] Progress of a race; or, The remarkable
    advancement of the American Negro, from the bondage of slavery,
    ignorance, and poverty to the freedom of citizenship,
    intelligence, affluence, honor and trust. Rev. and enl. by J. L.
    Nichols and William H. Crogman, with special articles by well
    known authorities, Mrs. Booker T. Washington, Charles M. Melden,
    M. W. Dogan, Albon L. Holsey, and an introduction by Robert R.
    Moton. Naperville, Ill., J. L. Nichols [1929] 480 p. illus.,
    ports. E185.G453
      Cover title: _The New Progress of a Race._
      1901 ed. by J. W. Gibson and W. H. Crogman, published under
      title: _The Colored American._

      71
    Haley, James T., _comp._ Afro-American encyclopedia; or, The
    thoughts, doings, and sayings of the race, embracing addresses,
    lectures, biographical sketches, sermons, poems, names of
    universities, colleges, seminaries, newspapers, books ... as
    discussed by more than 100 of their wisest and best men and
    women. Nashville, Haley & Florida, 1895. 639 p. illus. DHU

      72
    Julius Rosenwald Fund. Directory of agencies in race relations,
    national, State and local. Chicago, 1945. 124 p. E184.A1J8
      "The burden of the responsibility for compilation and editing
      ... has been upon Elizabeth Linn Allen."—Introduction.

      73
    The National cyclopedia of the colored race. Montgomery, Ala.,
    National Pub. Co., 1919. [622] p. illus., ports. E185.N27
      Editor: Clement Richardson.

      74
    The Negro handbook. 1942-49. New York, Malliet. tables.
    E185.5.N382
      Editor: 1942-49, Florence Murray.
      "Books and periodicals, a list of books by and about Negroes":
      1942, p. 194-200.
      Ceased publication with 1949.

      75
    Negro year book. New York, W. H. Wise, 1912-52. illus., diagrs.,
    maps. E185.5.N41
      No editions were published for 1920-21, 1923/24,
      1927/28-1929/30.
      Editor: 1912-38, M. N. Work.
      Vols. for 1912-47 issued by Tuskegee Institute.
      Ceased publication with 1952.

      76
    Plans for Progress. Directory of Negro colleges and
    universities, March, 1967. Washington [1967] 103 p. LC2801.P55
    1967

      77
    Ploski, Harry A., _and_ Roscoe C. Brown, _comps._ The Negro
    almanac. New York, Bellwether Pub. Co. [1967] 1012 p. illus.,
    maps, ports. [E185.P55] [TR: E185.N385]
      Bibliography: p. 946-965.

      78
    Who’s who in colored America; a biographical dictionary of
    notable living persons of Negro descent in America.
    1927-1938-40. New York, T. Yenser. ports. E185.96.W54
      Ceased publication with 1938-40.

      79
    Who’s who of the colored race; a general biographical dictionary
    of men and women of African descent. Chicago, 1915. 296 p.
    illus. E185.96.W6
      Edited by Frank Lincoln Mather.
      Memento ed., "Half-Century Anniversary of Negro Freedom in
      U.S."

      80
    Williams, Ethel L. Biographical directory of Negro ministers.
    New York, Scarecrow Press, 1965. 421 p. BR563.N4W5
      Bibliography: p. 407-412.

      81
    Wright, Richard R., _ed._ The encyclopaedia of the African
    Methodist Episcopal Church, containing principally the
    biographies of the men and women, both ministers and laymen,
    whose labors during a hundred and sixty years, helped make the
    AME Church what it is; ... and other matters concerning African
    Methodism and the Christian church in general. Compiled by R. R.
    Wright, Jr., assisted by associate editors, W. A. Fountain [and
    others]. Introduction by William A. Fountain, foreword by
    Reverdy Cassius Ransom. 2d ed. Philadelphia, 1947 [i.e. 1948]
    688 p. illus., maps, ports. BX8443.W8 1948
      First ed., 1916, has title: _Centennial Encyclopedia of the
      African Methodist Episcopal Church_.




03—ART


      82
    Albany Institute of History and Art, _Albany_. The Negro artist
    comes of age; a national survey of contemporary American
    artists. Albany Institute of History and Art, January 3rd
    through February 11th, 1945. [Albany, 1945] [77] p. illus.,
    ports. MH
      Foreword signed: John Davis Hatch, Jr.
      "Up till now" (p. iii-vii) signed: Alain Locke.
      Contains biographies.

      83
    Bowdoin College. _Museum of Fine Arts._ The portrayal of the
    Negro in American painting; [exhibition] the Bowdoin College
    Museum of Art. [Catalogue. Brunswick? Me.] 1964. 1 v. (unpaged)
    illus., ports. N8232.B6

      84
    Dover, Cedric. American Negro art. [Greenwich, Conn.] New York
    Graphic Society [1960] 186 p. illus., col. plates, ports.
    N6538.N5D6 1960
      "Bibliography by Maureen Dover": p. 57-60.

      85
    Harmon Foundation. Negro artists, an illustrated review of their
    achievements. New York [1935] 59 p. illus., ports. N6538.N5H34
      Includes exhibition of paintings by Malvin Gray Johnson and
      sculptures by Richmond Barthé and Sargent Johnson, presented
      by the Harmon Foundation in cooperation with the Delphic
      Studios, April 22-May 4, 1935, inclusive.

      86
    Locke, Alain L. Negro art: past and present. Washington,
    Associates in Negro Folk Education, 1936. 122 p. (Bronze booklet
    no. 3) [E185.5.B85 no. 3] [TR: Call number of original:
    E185.82.L74]
      "Reading references" at end of each chapter.

      87
    Locke, Alain L. The Negro in art; a pictorial record of the
    Negro artist and of the Negro theme in art; edited and annotated
    by Alain Locke. Washington, Associates in Negro Folk Education,
    1940. 224 p. illus., plates. N6538.N5L6
      "Selected bibliography": p. 224.

      88
    Murray, Freeman H. M. Emancipation and the freed in American
    sculpture; a study in interpretation. Introduction by John
    Wesley Cromwell. Washington, The author, 1916. xxviii, 239 p.
    plates. (Black folk in art series) E185.89.I2M9
      "This monograph is chiefly the expansion of papers which were
      read as lectures ... at the Summer School and Chautauqua of
      the National Religious Training School at Durham, N.C., in
      1913. Some of the matter has also appeared in the _A.M.E.
      Church Review._"—Preface.

      89
    The Negro in American art. An exhibition co-sponsored by the
    California Arts Commission, UCLA Art Galleries, September 11 to
    October 16, 1966; University of California, Davis, November 1 to
    December 15, 1966; Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego, January 6 to
    February 12, 1967; Oakland Art Museum, February 24 to March 19,
    1967. [Los Angeles?] UCLA Art Galleries, Dickson Art Center
    [1967?] 63 p. DLC [TR: N6538.N5N35]

      90
    New York (City) City University of New York. The evolution of
    Afro-American artists, 1800-1950. New York, 1967. 70 p. illus.
    N6538.N5N4
      Catalog of an exhibition organized by the City University of
      New York in cooperation with the Harlem Cultural Council and
      the New York Urban League, and held at Great Hall, the City
      College.

      91
    Porter, James A. Modern Negro art. With eighty-five halftone
    plates. New York, Dryden Press, 1943. 272 p. illus. N6538.N5P6
      Bibliography: p. 183-192.
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      92
    Porter, James A. Ten Afro-American artists of the nineteenth
    century. Washington, Gallery of Art, Howard University [1967] 33
    p. illus. N6538.N5P62
      Catalog, prepared by J. A. Porter, of an exhibition
      commemorating the centennial of Howard University held Feb.
      3-Mar. 30, 1967, Gallery of Art, Howard University.
      Bibliography: p. 32-33.

      93
    Rodman, Selden. Horace Pippin, a Negro painter in America. New
    York, Quadrangle Press, 1947. 88 p. illus., plates (part mounted
    col.), ports. ND237.P65R6

      94
    Roelof-Lanner, T. V., _ed._ Prints by American Negro artists.
    Los Angeles, Cultural Exchange Center [1965] [11] p., [51]
    illus. (part col.) NE508.R6

      95
    Schoener, Allon, _comp._ Harlem on my mind; cultural capital of
    Black America, 1900-1968. Preface by Thomas P. F. Hoving.
    Introduction by Candice Van Ellison. New York, Random House
    [1969, c1968] 255 p. illus., ports. F128.68.H3S3
      Supplements an exhibition held at the Metropolitan Museum of
      Art in 1969 and organized by the museum in association with
      the New York State Council on the Arts.

      96
    United States Committee for the First World Festival of Negro
    Arts. Dix artistes nègres des États-Unis; premier Festival
    mondial des arts nègres, Dakar, Sénégal, 1966. Ten Negro artists
    from the United States; first World Festival of Negro Arts,
    Dakar, Senegal, 1966. An exhibition produced and sponsored by
    the United States Committee for the First World Festival of
    Negro Arts, Inc., and the National Collection of Fine Arts,
    Smithsonian Institution. [Text translation prepared by Denise
    and Michel Berthier. New York, Distributed by October House,
    1966] 1 v. (unpaged) illus., ports. N6538.N5U513
      "The exhibition will be circulated in the United States by the
      American Federation of Arts."
      English and French.

      97
    White, Charles. Images of dignity: the drawings of Charles
    White. Foreword by Harry Belafonte. Introduction by James
    Porter. Commentary by Benjamin Horowitz. [Los Angeles] W.
    Ritchie Press [1967] 121 p. illus., port. [NC1075.W55H6] [TR:
    NC139.W454A4 1967]




04—BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY—Collective


      98
    Adams, Russell L. Great Negroes, past and present. Illustrations
    by Eugene Winslow. David P. Ross, Jr., editor. Chicago, Afro-Am
    Pub. Co. [c1963] 182 p. illus. (part col.), maps (part col.),
    ports. (part col.) E185.96.A4
      Bibliography: p. 178-179.

      99
    Bardolph, Richard. The Negro vanguard. New York, Rinehart [1959]
    388 p. E185.96.B28
      Bibliography: p. 343-369.

      99a
    Barton, Rebecca C. Witnesses for freedom; Negro Americans in
    autobiography. Foreword by Alain Locke. New York, Harper [1948]
    294 p. E185.96.B3
      Bibliography: p. 286-287.

      100
    Bennett, Lerone. Pioneers in protest. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co.,
    1968. 267 p. ports. E185.96.B4

      101
    Bontemps, Arna W. Famous Negro athletes. New York, Dodd, Mead
    [1964] 155 p. ports. (Famous biographies for young people)
    GV697.A1B575

      102
    Bontemps, Arna W., _and_ Jack Conroy. Anyplace but here. New
    York, Hill and Wang [1966] 372 p. E185.6.B75 1966
      "A revised and expanded version of _They Seek a City_."—Dust
      jacket.
      Bibliography: p. 349-360.

      103
    Bontemps, Arna W. We have tomorrow. Illustrated with photographs
    by Marian Palfi. Boston, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1945. 131 p.
    ports. E185.96.B6
      Biographical sketches of 12 young Negro men and women.

      104
    Brawley, Benjamin G. Negro builders and heroes. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1937. 315 p. ports.
    E185.96.B797
      "Bibliographical notes": p. 293-304.

      105
    Brown, Hallie Q., _comp._ Homespun heroines and other women of
    distinction. Foreword by Mrs. Josephine Turpin Washington.
    [Xenia, Ohio, Aldine Pub. Co., c1926] 248 p. ports. E185.96.B84

      106
    Brown, William W. The black man, his antecedents, his genius,
    and his achievements. New York, T. Hamilton, 1863. 288 p.
    E185.96.B86
      "Memoir of the author": p. 11-29.

      107
    Bruce, John E., _comp._ Short biographical sketches of eminent
    Negro men and women in Europe and the United States, with brief
    extracts from their writings and public utterances. Yonkers,
    N.Y. [Gazette Press] 1910. 103 p. E185.96.B88

      108
    Bryant, Lawrence C. Negro lawmakers in the South Carolina
    Legislature, 1869-1902. Orangeburg, School of Graduate Studies,
    South Carolina State College [1968] 142 p. E185.93.S7B75
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      109
    Bryant, Lawrence C. Negro senators and representatives in the
    South Carolina Legislature, 1868-1902. Orangeburg, S. C.[1968]
    199 p. E185.93.S7B76
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      110
    Bullock, Ralph W. In spite of handicaps; brief biographical
    sketches with discussion outlines of outstanding Negroes now
    living who are achieving distinction in various lines of
    endeavor. With a foreword by Channing H. Tobias. Freeport, N.Y.,
    Books for Libraries Press [1968] 140 p. ports. (Essay index
    reprint series) E185.96.B93 1968
      Reprint of the 1927 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 131-140.

      111
    Cherry, Gwendolyn, Ruby Thomas, _and_ Pauline Willis. Portraits
    in color; the lives of colorful Negro women. New York, Pageant
    Press [1962] 224 p. illus. E185.96.C45
      Bibliography: p. 207-224.

      112
    Child, Lydia M. F. The freedmen’s book. New York, Arno Press,
    1968. 277 p. (The American Negro, his history and literature)
    E185.86.C46 1968
      Reprint of the 1865 ed.

      113
    Christmas, Walter, _ed._ Negroes in public affairs and
    government. Contributors: Clifford A. Bradshaw [and others]
    Photographic editor: Roland Mitchell. Preface: Alfred E. Cain.
    v. 1. Yonkers [N.Y.] Educational Heritage [1966] 352 p. illus.,
    ports. (Negro heritage library) E185.96.C47
      Bibliography: p. 342-345.

      114
    Daniel, Sadie I. Women builders. Washington, Associated
    Publishers [c1931] xviii, 187 p. plates, ports. E185.96.D23
      Contents.—Lucy Craft Laney.—Maggie Lena Walker.—Janie Porter
      Barrett.—Mary McLeod Bethune.—Nannie Helen
      Burroughs.—Charlotte Hawkins Brown.—Jane Edna Hunter.

      115
    Dannett, Sylvia G. L. Profiles of Negro womanhood.
    Illustrations: Horace Varela. Roll of honor portraits: Tom
    Feelings. Yonkers, N.Y., Educational Heritage [1964-66] 2 v.
    illus., facsims., ports. (Negro heritage library) E185.96.D25
      Includes bibliographies.
      Contents.—v. 1. 1619-1900.—v. 2. 20th century.

      116
    David, Jay, _comp._ Growing up black. New York, Morrow, 1968.
    256 p. [E185.96.D283] [TR: E185.96.G76 1992]
      Includes well-known personalities such as Ethel Waters,
      Richard Wright, Dick Gregory, and Booker T. Washington.

      117
    Dobler, Lavinia G., _and_ Edgar A. Toppin. Pioneers and
    patriots: the lives of six Negroes of the Revolutionary era.
    Illustrated by Colleen Browning. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday,
    1965. 118 p. illus., facsims., ports. (Zenith books) E185.96.D6

      118
    Embree, Edwin R. 13 against the odds. New York, Viking Press,
    1944. 261 p. ports. E185.96.E4
      Contents.—Mary McLeod Bethune, Amazon of God.—Richard Wright,
      native son.—Charles S. Johnson, a scholar and a
      gentleman.—Walter White, little David.—George Washington
      Carver, sweet potato wizard.—Langston Hughes, Shakespeare in
      Harlem.—Marian Anderson, deep river of song.—W. E. B. DuBois,
      elder statesman.—Mordecai W. Johnson, Lord high
      chancellor.—William Grant Still, music maker.—A. Philip
      Randolph, Saint Philip of the Pullman porters.—Joe Louis,
      champion of the world.—Paul Robeson, voice of freedom.

      119
    Foley, Albert S. God’s men of color; the colored Catholic
    priests of the United States, 1854-1954. With a foreword by
    Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston. New York, Farrar,
    Straus [1955] 322 p. BX4670.F6
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      120
    Haynes, Elizabeth R. Unsung heroes. New York, DuBois and Dill,
    1921. 270 p. illus., ports. E185.96.H4
      Contents.—Frederick Douglass.—Paul Laurence Dunbar.—Booker T.
      Washington.—Harriet Tubman.—Alexander S. Pushkin.—Blanche
      Kelso Bruce.—Samuel Coleridge-Taylor.—Benjamin
      Banneker.—Phillis Wheatley.—Toussaint L’Ouverture.—Josiah
      Henson.—Sojourner Truth.—Crispus Attucks.—Alexandre
      Dumas.—Paul Cuffé.—Alexander Crummell.—John Mercer Langston.

      121
    Hill, Roy L. Who’s who in the American Negro press. Dallas,
    Royal Pub. Co. [1960] 80 p. PN4888.N4H5
      Bibliography: p. 70.

      122
    Hughes, Langston. Famous Negro heroes of America. Illustrated by
    Gerald McCann. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1958. 202 p. illus. (Famous
    biographies for young people) E185.96.H82

      123
    Hughes, Langston. Famous Negro music makers: illustrated with
    photographs. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1955. 179 p. illus. (Famous
    biographies for young people) ML3556.H9

      124
    Huie, William B. Three lives for Mississippi. With an
    introduction by Martin Luther King, Jr. [New York] New American
    Library [1968] 160 p. illus., maps, plans, ports. (A Signet
    book) F347.N4H8 1968
      Concerns civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, James E. Chaney,
      and Michael H. Schwerner.

      125
    Lomax, Louis E. To kill a black man. Los Angeles, Holloway House
    Pub. Co.; [distributed by: All America Distributors Corp., 1968]
    256 p. E185.97.L5L6
      Malcolm X and Martin Luther King are the subjects of this
      study.

      126
    Majors, Monroe A. Noted Negro women, their triumphs and
    activities. Chicago, Donohue & Henneberry [c1893] xvi, 365 p.
    illus., ports. E185.96.M23

      127
    Metcalf, George R. Black profiles. New York, McGraw-Hill [1968]
    341 p. E185.96.M48
      Bibliographical references included in "A note on sources" (p.
      337-340).
      Contents.—Martin Luther King, Jr.—William E. B. DuBois.—Roy
      Wilkins.—Thurgood Marshall.—Jackie Robinson.—Harriet
      Tubman.—Medgar Wiley Evers.—James H. Meredith.—Rosa
      Parks.—Edward W. Brooke.—Whitney Moore Young, Jr.

      128
    Moseley, J. H. Sixty years in Congress and twenty-eight out. New
    York, Vantage Press [1960] 99 p. illus. [JK1021.M75] [TR:
    E185.96.M84]

      129
    [Mott, Abigail F., _and_ M. S. Wood], _comps._ Narratives of
    colored Americans. Printed by order of the Trustees of the
    residuary estate of Lindley Murray. New York, W. Wood & co.,
    1877. E185.96.M92

      130
    Murray, Pauli. Proud shoes; the story of an American family. New
    York, Harper [1956] 276 p. E185.97.M95

      131
    The National register; pertinent facts about colored Americans.
    Louisville, Ky., Register Publications, 1952. 632 p. E185.96.N37
      Editor: T. J. Johnson.

      132
    Newbold, Nathan C., _ed._ Five North Carolina Negro educators;
    prepared under the direction of N. C. Newbold. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1939. 142 p. ports.
    LC2802.N8N4
      Biographical sketches composed by committees organized in nine
      North Carolina colleges, each committee consisting of one
      faculty adviser and one or more students.
      "Published under the auspices of the Division of Cooperation
      in Education and Race Relations; cooperating organizations:
      State Department of Public Instruction, University of North
      Carolina [and] Duke University."
      Contents.—Simon Green Atkins.—James Benson Dudley.—Annie
      Wealthy Holland.—Peter Weddick Moore.—Ezekiel Ezra Smith.

      133
    Nichols, Charles H. Many thousand gone; the ex-slaves’ account
    of their bondage and freedom. Leiden, Brill, 1963. xvi, 229 p.
    (Studies in American literature and history, 1) E444.N5
      Bibliography: p. [213]-224.

      134
    Ovington, Mary W. Portraits in color. New York, Viking Press,
    1927. 241 p. E185.96.O96
      Contents.—James Weldon Johnson.—Marcus Garvey.—Max
      Yergan.—Mordecai W. Johnson.—Lucy Laney.—Robert Russa
      Moton.—W. E. Burghardt DuBois.—Scipio Africanus Jones.—Walter
      White.—Robert S. Abbott.—Maggie Lena Walker.—Eugene Kinckle
      Jones.—Louis Tompkins Wright.—Ernest Everett Just.—George
      Washington Carver.—Janie Porter Barrett.—Langston Hughes.—Paul
      Robeson.—Meta Vaux Warrick Fuller.—Roland Hayes.

      135
    Redding, Jay Saunders. The lonesome road; the story of the
    Negro’s part in America. New York, Doubleday, 1958. 355 p.
    (Mainstream of America series) E185.61.R298
      Bibliography: p. 335-340.
      The lives of 12 Negro men and women and their struggle for
      equal rights.

      136
    Richardson, Ben A. Great American Negroes; rev. by William A.
    Fahey, illustrated by Robert Hallock. New York, Crowell [1956]
    339 p. illus. E185.96.R5 1956

      137
    Robinson, Wilhelmena S. Historical Negro biographies. New York,
    Publishers Co. [1967] 291 p. ports. (International library of
    Negro life and history) DT18.R57
      Published under the auspices of the Association for the Study
      of Negro Life and History.
      Bibliography: p. 271-281.

      138
    Rogers, Joel A. World’s great men of color. New York, J. A.
    Rogers [1946-47] 2 v. illus., ports. DT18.R59
      On cover: 3000 B.C. to 1946 A.D.
      Paged continuously.
      Includes bibliographies.

      139
    Rollins, Charlemae H. Famous American Negro poets. New York,
    Dodd, Mead [1965] 95 p. ports. (Famous biographies for young
    people) PS153.N5R6

      140
    Rollins, Charlemae H. Famous Negro entertainers of stage,
    screen, and TV. New York, Dodd, Mead [1967] 122 p. ports.
    (Famous biographies for young people) PN2286.R6
      Contents.—Ira Aldridge.—Marian Anderson.—Louis "Satchmo"
      Armstrong.—Josephine Baker.—Harry Belafonte.—Nat "King"
      Cole.—Sammy Davis, Jr.—"Duke" Ellington.—Lena Horne.—Eartha
      Kitt.—Sidney Poitier.—Leontyne Price.—Paul Robeson.—-Bill
      "Bojangles" Robinson.—"Bert" Williams.—Thomas "Fats" Waller.

      141
    Rollins, Charlemae H. They showed the way; forty American Negro
    leaders. New York, Crowell [1964] 165 p. E185.96.R6

      142
    Scruggs, Lawson A. Women of distinction: remarkable in works and
    invincible in character. Introduction by Mrs. Josephine Turpin
    Washington. Special contributions by T. Thomas Fortune, William
    Still. Raleigh, L. A. Scruggs, 1893. xxiii, 382 p. illus.,
    ports. E185.96.S4

      143
    Simmons, William J. Men of mark; eminent, progressive and
    rising. New York, Arno Press, 1968. 1141 p. ports. (The American
    Negro, his history and literature) E185.96.S45 1968
      Reprint of the 1887 ed.

      144
    Spellman, A. B. Four lives in the bebop business. New York,
    Pantheon Books [1966] xiv, 241 p. ML394.S74

      145
    Sterne, Emma G. I have a dream. Illustrated by Tracy Sugarman.
    New York, Knopf [1965] x, 229, iv p. illus. E185.96.S79
      Bibliography: p. [i]-iv (3d group).
      Contents.—Lift every voice and sing: Marian Anderson.—For
      life, liberty, and the pursuit of jobs: Asa Philip
      Randolph.—Freedom on the seas: Hugh Mulzac.—Hammer of justice:
      Thurgood Marshall.—Tired feet and rested hearts: Rosa Lee
      Parks.—At the point of the bayonet: Daisy Bates.—When freedom
      is a cup of coffee: James Farmer.—The man with the bulletproof
      soul: Fred Shuttlesworth.—We shall overcome: John Lewis.—One
      day out of a long tomorrow.

      146
    Styles, Fitzhugh L. The Negro lawyers’ contribution to
    seventy-one years of our progress. 71st anniversary celebration
    of Negro progress, Philadelphia, 1863-1934. [Philadelphia,
    Summer Press, c1934] [13] p. ports. E185.96.S83

      147
    Troup, Cornelius V. Distinguished Negro Georgians. Dallas, Royal
    Pub. Co. [1962] 203 p. E185.93.G4T7
      Bibliography: p. 195-199.

      148
    Washington, John E. They knew Lincoln. With an introduction by
    Carl Sandburg. New York, E. P. Dutton, 1942. 244, [21] p.
    facsims., plates, ports. E457.15.W32
      "Personal narrative of a Negro boy and man who sought all that
      could be possibly known about Abraham Lincoln from Negroes
      having impressions or facts he considered worth
      record."—Introduction.

      149
    Wright, Richard R. The bishops of the African Methodist
    Episcopal Church. [Nashville] Printed by the A.M.E. Sunday
    School Union, 1963. 389 p. BX8442.W7

      150
    Young, Andrew S. N. Great Negro baseball stars, and how they
    made the major leagues.     New York, A. S. Barnes [1953] 248 p.
    illus. [GV865.Y6A3] [TR:  GV865.A1Y6]




05—BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY—Individual


      151
    Allen, Walter C., _and_ Brian A. L. Rust. King Joe Oliver.
    London, Sidgwick and Jackson [1958] 224 p. illus. ML419.O4A6
    1958
      Biography of a great jazz musician.

      152
    Anderson, Marian. My Lord, what a morning; an autobiography. New
    York, Viking Press, 1956. 312 p. illus. ML420.A6A3

      153
    Armstrong, Henry. Gloves, glory, and God; an autobiography.
    [Westwood, N.J.] F. H. Revell Co. [1956] 256 p. illus.
    GV1132.A7A3

      154
    Ashe, Arthur. Advantage Ashe, by Arthur Ashe, Jr., as told to
    Clifford George Gewecke, Jr. New York, Coward-McCann [1967] 192
    p. illus. GV994.A7A3
      The achievements to date of an outstanding tennis player.

      155
    Aunt Sally; or, The cross the way to freedom. A narrative of the
    slave-life and purchase of the mother of Rev. Isaac Williams, of
    Detroit, Michigan. Cincinnati, American Reform Tract and Book
    Society, 1862. 216 p. illus., ports. E444.W79
      Slave life in North Carolina and Alabama.

      156
    Bailey, Pearl. The raw Pearl. New York, Harcourt, Brace & World
    [1968] 206 p. ports. ML420.B123A3

      157
    [Ball, Charles] Fifty years in chains; or, The life of an
    American slave. New York, H. Dayton, 1859. 430 p. E444.B184
      Prepared by —— Fisher from the verbal narrative of Ball, a
      slave.
      Earlier editions published under title: _Slavery in the United
      States._

      158
    Bartlett, Irving H. Wendell Phillips, Brahmin radical. Boston,
    Beacon Press [1961] 438 p. E449.P5594
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 402-432).
      An abolitionist leader.

      159
    Beckwourth, James P. The life and adventures of James P.
    Beckwourth [edited by] T. D. Bonner. New York, Arno Press, 1969.
    537 p. illus. (The American Negro, his history and literature)
    F592.B388 1969
      Reprint of the 1856 ed.

      160
    Bennett, Lerone. What manner of man; a biography of Martin
    Luther King, Jr. With an introduction by Benjamin E. Mays. [3d
    rev. ed.] Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1958. 251 p. illus., ports.
    E185.97.K5B4 1968

      161
    Bernard, Jacqueline. Journey toward freedom; the story of
    Sojourner Truth. New York, Norton [1967] xiv, 265 p. illus.,
    ports. E185.97.T82
      Bibliography: p. [255]-259.
      Upon gaining her freedom in 1828, Sojourner Truth became a
      lecturer advocating immediate emancipation for her people and
      the right to vote for women.

      162
    Bibb, Henry. Narrative of the life and adventures of Henry Bibb,
    an American slave, written by himself. With an introduction by
    Lucius C. Matlack. New York, The author, 1949. 204 p. illus.
    E444.B58

      163
    Bleiweiss, Robert M., Jacqueline L. Harris, _and_ Joseph R.
    Marfuggi. Marching to freedom; the life of Martin Luther King,
    Jr. Middletown, Conn., American Education Publications [1968]
    152 p. illus., ports. E185.97.K5B55

      164
    Bradford, Sarah E. H. Harriet Tubman, the Moses of her people.
    Introduction by Butler A. Jones. New York, Corinth Books [1961]
    149 p. illus. (The American experience series) [E444.T894] [TR:
    E444.T82B73 1993]
      First ed. published in 1869 under title: _Scenes in the Life
      of Harriet Tubman._
      "Reprint of the expanded second edition of 1886."

      165
    Branch, Hettye W. The story of "80 John," a biography of one of
    the most respected Negro ranchmen in the Old West. New York,
    Greenwich Book Publishers [1960] 59 p. F392.M6B7
      A brief story of Daniel Webster Wallace, a Negro rancher.

      166
    Brawley, Benjamin G. Paul Laurence Dunbar, poet of his people.
    Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1936. 159 p.
    port. PS1557.B7
      "Appendix. The Praise of Dunbar": p. 127-140.
      Bibliography: p. 141-151.

      167
    Broderick, Francis L. W. E. B. DuBois, Negro leader in a time of
    crisis. Stanford, Calif., Stanford University Press, 1959. 259
    p. illus. E185.97.D73B7
      Bibliography: p. [233]-236.

      168
    Brown, Claude. Manchild in the promised land. New York,
    Macmillan [1965] 415 p. E185.97.B86A3
      Autobiographical study of life in Harlem.

      169
    Brown, John. Slave life in Georgia: a narrative of the life,
    sufferings, and escape of John Brown, a fugitive slave, now in
    England. Edited by L. A. Chamerovzow. London [W. M. Watts] 1855.
    250 p. port. E444.B87

      170
    Buckle, Richard, _ed._ Katherine Dunham, her dancers, singers,
    musicians. Illustrations by Roger Wood and other photographers.
    London, Ballet Publications [1949] xvi, 79 p. (chiefly illus.)
    GV1631.B8
      English and French.

      171
    Buckler, Helen. Doctor Dan, pioneer in American surgery. Boston,
    Little, Brown [1954] 381 p. illus. R154.W5225B8
      Daniel Hale Williams was the first surgeon to operate on the
      heart.
      2d ed. published in 1968 under title: _Daniel Hale Williams,
      Negro Surgeon._

      172
    Byrd, James W. J. Mason Brewer, Negro folklorist. Austin, Tex.,
    Steck-Vaughn Co. [1967] 44 p. (Southwest writers series, no. 12)
    GR55.B7B9
      Bibliography: p. 43-44.

      173
    Cade, John B. Holsey, the incomparable. New York, Pageant Press
    [1964] 221 p. BX8473.H58C3
      Bibliography: p. 208-211.
      Lucius Henry Holsey was a bishop in the Colored Methodist
      Episcopal Church in America.

      174
    Campanella, Roy. It’s good to be alive. Boston, Little, Brown
    [1959] 306 p. illus. GV865.C3A3
      Life of one of the greatest baseball catchers.

      175
    Chesnutt, Helen M. Charles Waddell Chesnutt, pioneer of the
    color line. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press
    [1952] 324 p. port. PS1292.C6Z68
      See Fiction section for his novels.

      176
    Christian, Malcolm H. My country and I; the interracial
    experiences of an American Negro. With essays on interracial
    understanding. New York, Exposition Press [1963] 96 p.
    E185.97.C5A3

      177
    Clark, Septima P., _and_ LeGette Blythe. Echo in my soul.
    Foreword by Harry Golden. New York, Dutton, 1962. 243 p. illus.
    E185.97.C59A3
      An autobiography of Septima Clark.

      177a
    Conrad, Earl. Harriet Tubman. Washington, Associated Publishers
    [1943] xiv, 248 p. E444.T896
      "Documentation": p. 227-238.

      178
    Cotton, Ella E. A spark for my people; the sociological
    autobiography of a Negro teacher. New York, Exposition Press
    [1954] 288 p. LA2317.C64A3

      179
    Cronon, Edmund D. Black Moses; the story of Marcus Garvey and
    the Universal Negro Improvement Association. Madison, University
    of Wisconsin Press, 1955. 278 p. illus. E185.97.G3C7

      180
    Cunningham, Virginia. Paul Laurence Dunbar and his song;
    illustrated with photographs. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1947. 283 p.
    illus. PS1557.C8
      Bibliography: p. 267-283.

      181
    Daly, John J. A song in his heart. Introduction by Harry F.
    Byrd; illustrated by Marian L. Larer. Philadelphia, Winston
    [1951] 102 p. illus. ML410.B627D3
      Songs: p. 71-102.
      Biography of James A. Bland, composer of "Carry Me Back to Old
      Virginny."

      182
    Dancy, John C. Sand against the wind; the memoirs of John C.
    Dancy. With a foreword by Frank Angelo. Detroit, Wayne State
    University Press, 1966. 249 p. illus., ports. E185.97.D22A3
      The author was a political leader in Detroit.

      183
    Davis, Edwin A., _and_ William R. Hogan. The barber of Natchez,
    wherein a slave is freed and rises to a very high standing;
    wherein the former slave writes a two-thousand-page journal
    about his town and himself; wherein the free Negro diarist is
    appraised in terms of his friends, his code, and his community’s
    reaction to his wanton murder. Baton Rouge, Louisiana State
    University Press [1954] 272 p. illus., facsim., port.
    E185.97.J697D3
      A memoir of William Johnson.

      184
    Davis, Sammy, Jane Boyar, _and_ Burt Boyar. Yes I can; [the
    story of Sammy Davis, Jr. New York, Farrar, Straus & Giroux,
    1965] 612 p. ports. PN2287.D322A3

      185
    Douglass, Frederick. Life and times of Frederick Douglass: his
    early life as a slave, his escape from bondage, and his complete
    history, written by himself. With a new introduction by Rayford
    W. Logan. New York, Collier Books [1962] 640 p. (Collier books,
    BS74) E449.D744 1962
      Reprinted from the rev. ed. of _My Bondage and My Freedom_,
      published in 1892.
      Includes bibliography.

      186
    Douglass, Frederick. Narrative of the life of Frederick
    Douglass, an American slave, written by himself. Edited by
    Benjamin Quarles. Cambridge, Mass., Belknap Press, 1960. xxvi,
    163 p. map, port. (The John Harvard library) E449.D74905

      187
    Douty, Esther M. Forten, the sailmaker; pioneer champion of
    Negro rights. Chicago, Rand McNally [1968] 208 p. illus., ports.
    E185.97.F717D6
      Bibliography: p. 200-201.
      James Forten, an inventor and sailmaker, fought for civil
      rights of the Negro in the eighteenth century. He was a
      prominent Philadelphia Negro leader.

      188
    DuBois, William E. B. The autobiography of W. E. B. DuBois; a
    soliloquy on viewing my life from the last decade of its first
    century. [New York] International Publishers [1968] 448 p.
    ports. E185.97.D73A3
      A selected bibliography of the published writings of W. E. B.
      DuBois: p. 431-437.

      189
    DuBois, William E. B. John Brown. Centennial ed. New York,
    International Publishers [1962] 414 p. illus. E451.D81 1962
      First published in 1909.
      Bibliography: p. [405]-408.

      190
    Dunham, Katherine. A touch of innocence. New York, Harcourt,
    Brace [1959] 312 p. GV1785.D82A3
      A well-known dancer and choreographer relates her experiences.

      191
    Elliott, Lawrence. George Washington Carver: the man who
    overcame. Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1966] 256 p.
    port. S417.C3E4
      Bibliography: p. 255-256.

      192
    Emanuel, James A. Langston Hughes. New York, Twayne Publishers
    [1967] 192 p. (Twayne’s United States authors series, TUSAS 123)
    PS3515.U274Z64
      Bibliography: p. 184-188.

      193
    English, James W. Handyman of the Lord: the life and ministry of
    the Rev. William Holmes Borders. New York, Meredith Press [1967]
    177 p. BX6455.B63E5

      194
    Farr, Finis. Black champion; the life and times of Jack Johnson.
    New York, Scribner [1964] 245 p. ports. GV1132.J73F3
      The first Negro heavyweight champion of the world.

      195
    Feldman, Eugene P. R. Black power in old Alabama; the life and
    stirring times of James T. Rapier, Afro-American Congressman
    from Alabama, 1839-1883. Illustrations by Margaret T. Burroughs
    [and] Jennie Washington. [Chicago] Museum of African American
    History [1968] 69 p. illus., map, port. E185.97.R3F4
      Bibliographical references included in "Footnotes" (p.
      [70]-[72]).
      Bibliography (annotated): p. [73]-[74].

      196
    Fisher, Miles M. The Master’s slave, Elijah John Fisher; a
    biography, by his son, Miles Mark Fisher. With an introduction
    by the Rev. Lacey Kirk Williams, and an appreciation by the Hon.
    Martin B. Madden. Philadelphia, Judson Press [1922] 194 p.
    plates, ports. BX6455.F5F5

      197
    Flipper, Henry O. The colored cadet at West Point. New York,
    Arno Press, 1969. 322 p. illus. (The American Negro, his history
    and literature.) U410.P1F6 1969
      Reprint of the 1878 ed.

      198
    Flipper, Henry O. Negro frontiersman: the Western memoirs of
    Henry O. Flipper, first Negro graduate of West Point. Edited
    with an introduction by Theodore D. Harris. El Paso, Texas
    Western College Press, 1963. 54 p. ports. E185.97.F5 1963
      "Sequel to ... _The Colored Cadet at West Point_ ... published
      in 1878."

      199
    Foley, Albert S. Bishop Healy: beloved outcaste; the story of a
    great priest whose life has become a legend. New York, Farrar,
    Straus and Young [1954] 243 p. illus. BX4705.H37F6
      The life of James Augustine Healy, a bishop in the Catholic
      Church.

      200
    Foner, Philip S. Frederick Douglass, a biography. New York,
    Citadel Press [1964] 444 p. port. E449.D755
      "Reference notes": p. [377]-434.

      201
    Forman, James. Sammy Younge, Jr.: the first black college
    student to die in the black liberation movement. New York, Grove
    Press [1968] 282 p. illus., map, ports. E185.97.Y64F6

      202
    Garvey, Amy J. Garvey and Garveyism. [Kingston, Jamaica, c1963]
    287 p. ports. E185.97.G3G3
    Biography of Marcus Garvey.

      203
    Garvey, Marcus. Philosophy and opinions. New York, Arno Press,
    1968. 102 p. (The American Negro, his history and literature)
    [E185.97.G3A25] [TR: E185.97.G3A249]
      Reprint of 1923 ed. with a new introduction.

      204
    Gibson, Althea. I always wanted to be somebody. Edited by Ed
    Fitzgerald. New York, Harper [1958] 176 p. illus. GV994.G5A3
      The story of the rise to fame of a Negro woman tennis star.

      205
    Gilbert, Olive. Narrative of Sojourner Truth. New York, Arno
    Press, 1968. 320 p. illus., facsims., ports. (The American
    Negro; his history and literature) E185.97.T882
      First published in 1850.
      Reprint of the 1878 ed.
      "Book of life [by Frances W. Titus]": p. [127]-320.
      Life of one of the few Negro women abolitionists.

      206
    Graham, Shirley. Paul Robeson, citizen of the world. Foreword by
    Carl Van Doren. New York, J. Messner [1946] 264 p. ports.
    E185.97.R64 [TR: Du Bois, Shirley Graham E185.97.R635 1971]
      Bibliography: p. 259.
      The story of an all-American football star who became an
      internationally famous singer and actor.

      207
    Graham, Shirley. Your most humble servant. New York, Messner
    [1949] 235 p. [QB36.B22G7] [TR: Du Bois, Shirley Graham
    QB36.B22D82]
      "Notes on sources": p. 227-235.
      The story of Benjamin Banneker, mathematician and astronomer,
      who helped L’Enfant plan the city of Washington.

      208
    Gregory, Dick. Nigger; an autobiography, by Dick Gregory with
    Robert Lipsyte. New York, Dutton, 1964. 224 p. illus., ports.
    PN2287.G68A3

      209
    Hammon, Briton. A narrative of the uncommon sufferings, and
    surprizing deliverance of Briton Hammon, a Negro man ... servant
    to General Winslow, of Marshfield, in New-England; who returned
    to Boston, after having been absent almost thirteen years.
    Containing an account of the many hardships he underwent from
    the time he left his master’s house, in the year 1747, to the
    time of his return to Boston.—How he was cast away in the capes
    of Florida; ... the horrid cruelty ... of the Indians in
    murdering the whole ship’s crew; ... the manner of his being
    carried by them into captivity. Also, an account of his being
    confined four years and seven months in a close dungeon. Boston,
    Printed and sold by Green & Russell, 1760. 14 p. F314.H22
      Probably the earliest imprint by an American Negro.

      210
    Handy, William C. Father of the blues; an autobiography of W. C.
    Handy, edited by Arna Bontemps, with a foreword by Abbe Niles.
    New York, Macmillan, 1941. xiv, 317 p. plate, port. ML410.H18B6
      Includes music.
      "Compositions, arrangements and books by W. C. Handy": p.
      3O5-3O8.

      211
    Hardwick, Richard. Charles Richard Drew, pioneer in blood
    research. New York, Scribner [1967] 144 p. QP26.D7H3

      212
    Hare, Maud C. Norris Wright Cuney: a tribune of the Black
    people. Introduction by Robert C. Cotner. Austin, Tex.,
    Steck-Vaughn [c1968] xv, 230 p. illus., ports. (Steck-Vaughn’s
    Life and adventure series) E185.97.C97H3 1913a
      A facsimile reproduction of the 1913 edition with new
      introduction.
      The story of a prominent Texas politician in the 1870’s.

      213
    Harrison, Deloris. We shall live in peace: the teachings of
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Edited, and with commentary, by Deloris
    Harrison. Illustrated by Ernest Crichlow. New York, Hawthorn
    Books [1968] 64 p. illus. E185.97.K5H3

      214
    Hawkins, Hugh, _ed._ Booker T. Washington and his critics; the
    problem of Negro leadership. Boston, Heath [1962] 113 p.
    (Problems in American civilization) E185.97.W235
      Includes bibliography.

      215
    Hawkins, William G. Lunsford Lane; or, Another helper from North
    Carolina. Boston, Crosby & Nichols, 1863. 305 p. port. E444.L26
      Lane, an antislavery lecturer, spent 32 years in slavery. He
      served as "waiter and messenger" to two Governors of the State
      of North Carolina.

      216
    Hayden, William. Narrative of William Hayden, containing a
    faithful account of his travels for a number of years, whilst a
    slave, in the South. Cincinnati [Published for the author] 1846.
    156 p. plates, port. E444.H41

      217
    Henson, Josiah. Father Henson’s story of his own life.
    Introduction by Walter Fisher. New York, Corinth Books [1962]
    212 p. illus. (The American experience series, AE18) E444.H523
    1962
      First published in 1858 under title: _Truth Stranger than
      Fiction: Father Henson’s Story of His Own Life._

      218
    Henson, Matthew A. A Negro explorer at the North Pole. With a
    foreword by Robert E. Peary and an introduction by Booker T.
    Washington; with illustrations from photographs. New York, F. A.
    Stokes Co. [1912] xx, 200 p. illus., plates, ports. G670.1909.H5
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      219
    Hickey, Neil, _and_ Ed Edwin. Adam Clayton Powell and the
    politics of race. New York, Fleet Pub. Corp. [1965] 308 p.
    illus., ports. E748.P86H5
      Bibliography: p. 299-300.

      220
    Holdredge, Helen O. Mammy Pleasant’s partner. New York, Putnam
    [c1954] 300 p. illus. F869.S3B4 1954
      The story of Thomas Frederick Bell in San Francisco.

      221
    Holt, Rackham. George Washington Carver, an American biography.
    Rev. ed. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday [1963] 360 p. illus.
    S417.C3H6 1963

      222
    Holt, Rackham. Mary McLeod Bethune; a biography. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1964. 306 p. illus., ports.      E185.97.B34H6
      An outstanding educator and political figure.

      223
    Horne, Lena, _and_ Richard Schickel. Lena. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1965. 300 p. illus., ports. ML420.H65A35

      224
    Hoyt, Edwin P. Paul Robeson, the American Othello. Cleveland,
    World Pub. Co. [1967] 228 p. ML420.R73H7
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      225
    Hughes, Langston. The big sea, an autobiography. New York, Hill
    and Wang [1963, c1940] 335 p. (American century series)
    PS3515.U274Z5 1963
      "AC65."

      226
    Hughes, Langston. I wonder as I wander; an autobiographical
    journey. New York, Rinehart [1956] 405 p. PS3515.U274Z58

      227
    Hughes, William H., _and_ Frederick D. Patterson, _eds._ Robert
    Russa Moton of Hampton and Tuskegee. Chapel Hill, University of
    North Carolina Press [1956] 238 p. illus. E185.97.M92H8
      "Volume of tributes to the life of Dr. Robert Russa Moton."

      228
    Huie, William B. Ruby McCollum; woman in the Suwannee jail. Rev.
    ed. [New York] New American Library [1964] 190 p. illus., port.
    (A Signet book) DLC-LL [TR: LAW]

      229
    Hunton, George K. All of which I saw, part of which I was; the
    autobiography of George K. Hunton as told to Gary MacEóin.
    Introduction by Roy Wilkins. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1967.
    283 p. E185.61.H96
      A crusader for racial justice.

      230
    Jackson, Mahalia. Movin’ on up. With Evan McLeod Wylie. New
    York, Hawthorn Books [1966] 212 p. illus., ports. ML420.J17A3
      Discography: p. [215], [218]-[219].
      Probably the best known gospel singer.

      230a
    Jefferson, Isaac. Memoirs of a Monticello slave, as dictated to
    Charles Campbell in the 1840’s by Isaac, one of Thomas
    Jefferson’s slaves. Edited by Rayford W. Logan. Charlottesville,
    Published by the University of Virginia Press for the Tracy W.
    McGregor Library, 1951. 45 p. port. E444.J4
      "Appeared simultaneously in the autumn 1951 _William and Mary
      Quarterly_."
      "Bibliographical note": p. 37-38.

      231
    Johnson, James W. Along this way; the autobiography of James
    Weldon Johnson. New York, Viking Press, 1933. 418 p. plates,
    ports. [E185.97.J69] [TR: PS3519.O2625Z463 1933]
      Life of a diplomat, poet, and anthologist.

      232
    Keckley, Elizabeth H. Behind the scenes; or, Thirty years a
    slave, and four years in the White House. New York, G. W.
    Carleton, 1868. xvi, 371 p. port. E457.15.K26
      An unusual portrait of Mary Todd Lincoln by her dressmaker and
      "confidante" who served her while in the White House.
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1968.

      233
    Kitt, Eartha. Thursday’s child. New York, Duell, Sloan and
    Pearce [1956] 250 p. illus. ML420.K5A3
      Autobiographical.

      234
    Kytle, Elizabeth L. Willie Mae. New York, Knopf, 1958. 243 p.
    E185.97.W62K9
      Story of a Negro servant by one of her white employers.

      235
    Lee, Reba, _pseud._ I passed for white, by Reba Lee as told to
    Mary Hastings Bradley. New York, Longmans, Green, 1955. 274 p.
    E185.97.Z9L4

      236
    Lewis, Claude. Adam Clayton Powell. Greenwich, Conn., Fawcett
    Publications [1963] 127 p. (Gold medal books) E748.P86L4
      "K1361."

      237
    Lichello, Robert. Pioneer in blood plasma: Dr. Charles Richard
    Drew. New York, J. Messner [1968] 190 p. R154.D75L5
      Bibliography: p. 185.

      237a
    Little, Malcolm. The autobiography of Malcolm X. With the
    assistance of Alex Haley. Introduction by M. S. Handler.
    Epilogue by Alex Haley. New York, Grove Press [1965] xvi, 455 p.
    illus., ports. [E185.61.L58] [TR: E185.97.L5A3]

      238
    Lokos, Lionel. House divided; the life and legacy of Martin
    Luther King. New Rochelle, N.Y., Arlington House [1968] 567 p.
    E185.97.K5L6
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [505]-555).

      239
    Louis, Joe. The Joe Louis story. [Written with the editorial aid
    of Chester L. Washington and Haskell Cohen] New York, Grosset &
    Dunlap [1953] 197 p. illus. GV1132.L6A3 1953
      First ed. published in 1947 under title: _My Life Story._

      240
    Love, Nat. The life and adventures of Nat Love. New York, Arno
    Press, 1968. 162 p. illus., ports. (The American Negro, his
    history and literature) F594.L89 1968
      Reprint of the 1907 ed., with new introduction by W. L. Katz.
      A pioneer in the westward movement.

      241
    McFeely, William S. Yankee stepfather: General O. O. Howard and
    the freedmen. New Haven, Yale University Press, 1968. 351 p.
    port. (Yale publications in American studies, 15) E467.1.H8M3
      Bibliography: p. [329]-346.
      Oliver Otis Howard was one of the founders of Howard
      University.

      242
    Magdol, Edward. Owen Lovejoy, abolitionist in Congress. New
    Brunswick, N.J., Rutgers University Press [1967] 493 p.
    facsims., map, port. E415.9.L89M3
      Bibliography: p. [457]-468.

      243
    Magoun, F. Alexander. Amos Fortune’s choice; the story of a
    Negro slave’s struggle for self-fulfillment. Photographs by the
    author. Freeport, Me., Bond Wheelwright Co. [1964] 237 p.
    illus., facsims., maps. E185.97.F73M3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      244
    Malvin, John. North into freedom; the autobiography of John
    Malvin, free Negro, 1795-1880. Edited and with an introduction
    by Allan Peskin. Cleveland, Press of Western Reserve University,
    1966. 87 p. E185.97.M26A3 1966
      "A book from Cleveland State University."
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes to the
      introduction" (p. 22-24).

      245
    Mann, Arthur W. The Jackie Robinson story. New York, Grosset &
    Dunlap [1951] 224 p. ports. (The Big league baseball library)
    GV865.R6M3 1951

      246
    Marrant, John. A narrative of the life of John Marrant, of New
    York, in North America: giving an account of his conversion when
    only fourteen years of age: his leaving his mother’s house from
    religious motives ... and being at last taken by an Indian
    hunter among the Cherokees. Leeds, Printed by Davies, 1810. 24
    p. E99.C5M35
      Preface signed: W. Aldridge. London, July 19, 1786.

      247
    Marshall, Herbert, _and_ Mildred Stock. Ira Aldridge, the Negro
    tragedian. London, Rockliff [1958] 355 p. illus. PN2598.A52M3
      Includes bibliographies.

      248
    Martin Luther King, Jr.; man and teacher. [Baltimore, Printed by
    Vinmar Lithographing Co., 1968] 1 v. (unpaged) illus., ports.
    E185.97.K5M34

      249
    Mays, Willie. Born to play ball, by Willie Mays, as told to
    Charles Einstein. New York, Putnam [1955] 168 p. illus.
    GV865.M38A3

      250
    Mays, Willie. Willie Mays: My life in and out of baseball, as
    told to Charles Einstein. New York, Dutton, 1966. 320 p. illus.,
    ports. GV865.M38A32

      251
    Melbourn, Julius. Life and opinions of Julius Melbourn; with
    sketches of the lives and characters of Thomas Jefferson, John
    Quincy Adams, John Randolph, and several other eminent American
    statesmen. Edited by a late member of Congress. Syracuse, Hall &
    Dickson, 1847. 239 p. port. E338.M51

      252
    Meltzer, Milton. Langston Hughes; a biography. New York, Crowell
    [1968] 281 p. PS3515.U274Z68 1968
      Bibliography: p. 269-274.

      253
    Miller, Floyd. Ahdoolo: The biography of Matthew A. Henson. New
    York, Dutton, 1963. 221 p. illus. G635.H4M5 1963

      254
    Miller, Margery. Joe Louis: American. New York, Current Books,
    A. A. Wyn [1945] 181 p. plates, ports. GV1132.L6M5

      255
    Moore, Archie. The Archie Moore story. New York, McGraw-Hill
    [1960] 240 p. illus. GV1132.M75A3

      256
    Morrow, Everett F. Black man in the White House; a diary of the
    Eisenhower years by the administrative officer for special
    projects, the White House, 1955-1961. New York, Coward-McCann
    [1963] 308 p. E835.M58

      257
    Moton, Robert R. Finding a way out; an autobiography. Garden
    City, N.Y., Doubleday, Page, 1920. 295 p. E185.97.M9
      While president of Tuskegee Institute, Moton raised the
      standard of its secondary academic work to that of an
      accredited college.

      258
    Mulzac, Hugh. A star to steer by; by Hugh Mulzac, as told to
    Louis Burnham and Norval Welch. New York, International
    Publishers [1963] 251 p. illus. E185.63.M8
      Life of a member of the merchant marine.

      259
    Newman, Shirlee P. Marian Anderson: lady from Philadelphia.
    Philadelphia, Westminster Press [c1965] 175 p. ports. ML420.A6N5
      Bibliography: p. 163-165.

      260
    Olsen, Otto H. Carpetbagger’s crusade; the life of Albion
    Winegar Tourgée. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press, 1965. xiv, 395
    p. illus., facsims., ports. PS3088.O5
      "Bibliography of Tourgée’s writings": p. 355-362. "General
      bibliography": p. 363-382.

      261
    Ottley, Roi. The lonely warrior: the life and times of Robert S.
    Abbott. Chicago, H. Regnery Co., 1955. 381 p. illus.
    PN4874.A23O7
      Bibliography: p. 369-370.
      Abbott was editor for many years of the _Chicago Defender_, a
      major Negro newspaper.

      262
    Parker, Robert A. The incredible messiah; the deification of
    Father Divine. Boston, Little, Brown, 1937. 323 p. port.
    BX7350.P3
      Bibliography: p. 321-323.
      Self-named Father Divine, George Baker was the leader for many
      years of a religious sect.

      263
    Parks, Gordon. A choice of weapons. New York, Harper & Row
    [1966] 274 p. PS3566.A73C5
      The story of a successful photographer-historian for _Life_
      magazine.

      264
    Parks, Lillian R. My thirty years backstairs at the White House
    [by] Lillian Rogers Parks in collaboration with Frances Spatz
    Leighton. New York, Fleet Pub. Corp. [1961] 346 p. E176.1.P37

      265
    Patterson, Floyd. Victory over myself. With Milton Gross. [New
    York] B. Geis Associates; distributed by Random House [1962] 244
    p. illus. GV1132.P3A3

      266
    Pauli, Hertha E. Her name was Sojourner Truth. New York,
    Appleton-Century-Crofts [1962] 250 p. E185.97.T89
      Bibliography: p. 242-244.
      An abolitionist and lecturer until her death in 1883.

      267
    Pennington, James W. C. The fugitive blacksmith; or, Events in
    the history of James W. C. Pennington ... formerly a slave in
    the state of Maryland, United States. 3d ed. London, C. Gilpin,
    1850. xix, 84 p. E444.P41

      268
    Preston, Edward. Martin Luther King: fighter for freedom. Garden
    City, N.Y., Doubleday [1968] 142 p. illus., ports. (Doubleday
    signal books) E185.97.K5P7

      269
    Quarles, Benjamin, _comp._ Frederick Douglass. Englewood Cliffs,
    N.J., Prentice-Hall [1968] 184 p. (Great lives observed)
    E449.Q18
      A Spectrum book.
      "Bibliographical note": p. 179-181. Bibliographical footnotes.

      270
    Reddick, Lawrence D. Crusader without violence; a biography of
    Martin Luther King, Jr. New York, Harper [1959] 243 p. illus.
    E185.97.K5R4

      271
    Reisner, Robert G. Bird: the legend of Charlie Parker, New York,
    Citadel Press [1962] 256 p. ports.  ML419.P4R4
      Discography: p. 241-256.

      272
    Robeson, Eslanda G. Paul Robeson, Negro. New York, Harper, 1930.
    178 p. ports. E185.97.R65

      273
    Robeson, Paul. Here I stand. New York, Othello Associates [1958]
    128 p. E185.97.R62

      274
    Robinson, James H. Road without turning, the story of Reverend
    James H. Robinson; an autobiography. New York, Farrar, Straus
    [1950] 312 p. BX9225.R715A3
      The founder of "Crossroads Africa" and religious leader of
      today.

      275
    Robinson, John R. Jackie Robinson, my own story, as told to
    Wendell Smith; foreword by Branch Rickey. New York, Greenberg
    [1948] 170p. illus., ports. GV865.R6A3

      276
    Robinson, John R., _and_ Alfred Duckett. Breakthrough to the big
    league; the story of Jackie Robinson. New York, Harper & Row
    [1965] 178 p. ports. (A Breakthrough book) GV865.R6A27

      277
    Roper, Moses. A narrative of the adventures and escape of Moses
    Roper, from American slavery; with a preface, by the Rev. T.
    Price. 4th ed. London, Harvey and Darton, 1840. 120 p. illus.,
    port. E444.R785

      278
    Rowan, Carl T. Wait till next year; the life story of Jackie
    Robinson, by Carl T. Rowan with Jackie Robinson. New York,
    Random House [1960] 339 p. illus. GV865.R6R64

      279
    Rowland, Mabel, _ed._ Bert Williams, son of laughter; a
    symposium of tribute to the man and to his work, by his friends
    and associates, with a preface by David Belasco. New York,
    English Crafters [c1923] xvii, 218 p. illus., facsims., plates,
    ports. PN2287.W46R6
      Egbert Austin Williams was a comedian loved by theatergoers of
      the last generation.

      280
    Rudwick, Elliott M. W. E. B. DuBois; a study in minority group
    leadership. Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Press
    [1960] 382 p. E185.97.D73R8
      Bibliography: p. 350-368.

      281
    Rudwick, Elliott M. W. E. B. DuBois, propagandist of the Negro
    protest. With a new preface by Louis Harlan and an epilogue by
    the author. New York, Atheneum, 1968. 390 p. (Studies in
    American Negro life, NL6) E185.97.D73R8 1968
      Atheneum paperbacks.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes": p. 319-376.

      282
    Schuyler, George S. Black and conservative; the autobiography of
    George S. Schuyler. New Rochelle, N.Y., Arlington House [1966]
    362 p. PN4874.S35A3
      Long-time columnist for the _Pittsburgh Courier_, a Negro
      newspaper.

      283
    Schuyler, Philippa D. Adventures in black and white. Foreword by
    Deems Taylor. New York, R. Speller [1960] 302 p. illus.
    ML417.S42A3
      An account of the author’s travels in sixty countries. This
      child prodigy, musician, and composer, died in Vietnam while
      on a visit to  entertain the troops.

      284
    Singleton, George A. The autobiography of George A. Singleton.
    Boston, Forum Pub. Co. [1964] 272 p. illus., ports.
    [BX8449.S5A3]
      The story of a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal
      Church.

      285
    Smith, Amanda B. An autobiography; the story of the Lord’s
    dealings with Mrs. Amanda Smith, the colored evangelist;
    containing an account of her life work of faith, and her travels
    in America, England, Ireland, Scotland, India and Africa, as an
    independent missionary. With an introduction by Bishop Thoburn.
    Chicago, Meyer, 1893. xvi, 506 p. plates, ports. BV3785.S56A3
    1893

      286
    Somerville, John A. Man of colour; an autobiography. With a
    foreword by P. M. Sherlock. Kingston, Jamaica, Pioneer Press
    [1951] 134 p. illus. E185.97.S65 1951

      287
    Spencer, Samuel R. Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s place in
    American life. Boston, Little, Brown [1955] 212 p. (The Library
    of American biography) E185.97.W272

      288
    Sterling, Dorothy. Captain of the Planter; the story of Robert
    Smalls. Illustrated by Ernest Crichlow. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1958. 264 p. illus. E185.97.S6S8
      Bibliography: p. 247-264.
      The _Planter_ was a Confederate gunboat seized and turned over
      to the Union by Smalls, a slave crewman.

      289
    Steward, Austin. Twenty-two years a slave, and forty years a
    freeman; embracing a correspondence of several years, while
    president of Wilberforce Colony, London, Canada West. 3d ed.
    Rochester, N.Y., Allings & Cory, 1861. 360 p. plates, port.
    E444.S845

      290
    Still, James. Early recollections and life of Dr. James Still.
    [Philadelphia] Printed for the author by J. B. Lippincott, 1877.
    274 p. port. E185.97.S85
      James Still was the brother of William Still, the author of
      _The Underground Railroad_.

      291
    Tarry, Ellen. The third door; the autobiography of an American
    Negro woman. New York, D. McKay Co. [1955] 304 p. E185.97.T37A3

      292
    Tarry, Ellen. Young Jim; the early years of James Weldon
    Johnson. New York, Dodd, Mead [1967] 230 p. facsims., ports.
    PS3519.O2625Z89

      293
    Tatum, E. Ray. Conquest or failure? Biography of J. Frank
    Norris. Dallas, Baptist Historical Foundation [1966] 295 p.
    illus., ports. BX6495.N59T3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      294
    Terrell, Mary C. A colored woman in a white world. Washington,
    Ransdell [c1940] 436 p. port. E185.97.T47

      295
    Thomas, Jesse O. My story in black and white; the autobiography
    of Jesse O. Thomas. Foreword by Whitney M. Young, Jr. New York,
    Exposition Press [1967] 300 p. (An Exposition-banner book)
    E185.97.T49A3

      296
    Thomas, Piri. Down these mean streets. New York, Knopf, 1967.
    333 p. F128.9.P8T5
      Autobiographical account of life among the Puerto Ricans and
      Negroes in New York City.

      297
    Thomas, Will. The seeking. New York, A. A. Wyn [1953] 290 p.
    E185.97.T52A3
      Autobiographical; the author is a journalist and writer from
      Vermont.

      297a
    Thompson, Era B. American daughter. Chicago, University of
    Chicago Press [1946] 300 p. E185.97.T53
      Autobiographical.

      298
    Thompson, John. The life of John Thompson, a fugitive slave;
    containing his history of 25 years in bondage, and his
    providential escape. Worcester, J. Thompson, 1856. 143 p.
    E444.T47

      299
    Thornbrough, Emma L., _comp._ Booker T. Washington. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [c1969] 184 p. (Great lives
    observed) E185.97.W277
      A Spectrum book.
      "Bibliographical note": p. 178-182.

      300
    Ward, Samuel R. Autobiography of a fugitive Negro: his
    anti-slavery labours in the United States, Canada, & England.
    New York, Arno Press, 1968. 412 p. port. (The American Negro:
    his history and literature) E449.W27 1968
      Reprint of the 1855 ed.

      301
    Washington, Booker T. Up from slavery; an autobiography. New
    York, Doubleday, Page, 1901. 330 p. port. E185.97.W3
      Originally published in the _Outlook_.
      An illustrated edition with an introduction by Langston Hughes
      was published by Dodd, Mead, New York, in 1965.

      302
    Webb, Constance. Richard Wright; a biography. New York, Putnam
    [1968] 443 p. illus. PS3545.R815Z9
      Bibliography: p. 423-429.

      303
    Wesley, Charles H. Richard Allen, apostle of freedom.
    Washington, Associated Publishers [c1935] 300 p. port.
    BX8449.A6W4
      Bibliography: p. 277-285.
      The first bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.

      304
    White, Walter F. A man called White, the autobiography of Walter
    White. New York, Viking Press, 1948. 382 p. E185.97.W6A3
      Writer and former director of the NAACP.

      305
    Wright, Richard. Black boy; a record of childhood and youth.
    Illustrated by Ashley Bryan. Introductory note by Dorothy
    Canfield Fisher. Cleveland, World Pub. Co. [1950] 298 p. illus.
    (The Living library [L22]) PS3545.R815Z5 1950

      306
    Wright, Richard R. 87 years behind the black curtain; an
    autobiography. Philadelphia, Rare Book Co., 1965. 351 p.
    [BX8449.W7A3]
      Richard Robert Wright was a leader in the African Methodist
      Episcopal Church.

      307
    Yates, Elizabeth. Howard Thurman, portrait of a practical
    dreamer. New York, John Day Co. [1964] 249 p. port. BX6455.T5Y3
        "Chronological bibliography of works by Howard Thurman": p.
        241-242.
        A Negro philosopher, author, and religious leader.

      308
    Young, Andrew S. N. Sonny Liston, the champ nobody wanted.
    Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co. [1963] 224 p. illus. GV1132.L5Y6




06—CIVIL RIGHTS


      309
    Ames, William C. The Negro struggle for equality in the
    twentieth century. [Teachers ed.] Boston, Heath [1965] 182, 16
    p. illus., maps. (New dimensions in American history)
    E185.61.A49
      Bibliography: p. 177-179.

      310
    Barbour, Floyd B., _comp._ The Black Power revolt; a collection
    of essays. Editor: Floyd B. Barbour. Boston, P. Sargent [1968]
    287 p. (Extending horizons books) E185.615.B3
      Includes bibliographies.

      311
    Belfrage, Sally. Freedom summer. New York, Viking Press [1965]
    246 p. E185.93.M6B4
      A personal account of a civil rights worker who spent the
      summer of 1964 in Mississippi.

      312
    Blaustein, Albert P., _and_ Robert L. Zangrando, _comps._ Civil
    rights and the American Negro; a documentary history. New York,
    Trident Press [1968] xv, 671 p. E185.61.B665

      313
    Brink, William J., _and_ Louis Harris. Black and white; a study
    of U.S. racial attitudes today. New York, Simon and Schuster
    [1967] 285 p. E185.615.B7

      314
    Bureau of National Affairs, _Washington, D.C._ The Civil Rights
    Act of 1964: text, analysis, legislative history; what it means
    to employers, businessmen, unions, employees, minority groups.
    Washington [1964] 424 p. forms. (A BNA operations manual) DLC-LL

      315
    Burns, William H. The voices of Negro protest in America. With a
    foreword by John Hope Franklin. New York, Oxford University
    Press [1963] 85 p. E185.61.B96 1963b
        "Issued under the auspices of the Institute of Race
        Relations, London."
        Bibliography: p. [87]-[89].

      316
    Cable, George W. The Negro question; a selection of writings on
    civil rights in the South. Edited by Arlin Turner. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1958. 286 p. (Doubleday anchor books)
    E185.61.C19 1958a

      317
    Cable, George W. A southerner looks at Negro discrimination;
    selected writings of George W. Cable, edited, with a
    biographical sketch, by Isabel Cable Manes. With an introduction
    by Professor Alva W. Taylor. [New York, 1946] 48 p. E185.61.C197
      "References": p. 48.

      318
    Carmichael, Stokely, _and_ Charles V. Hamilton. Black Power: the
    politics of liberation in America. New York, Random House [1967]
    xii, 198 p. E185.615.C32
      Bibliography: p. 187-189.

      319
    Carter, Wilmoth A. The new Negro of the South; a portrait of
    movements and leadership. New York, Exposition Press [1967] 58
    p. (An Exposition-university book) E185.61.C285
      Bibliography: p. [57]-58.

      320
    Chambers, Bradford, _comp._ Chronicles of Negro protest; a
    background book for young people, documenting the history of
    black power, compiled and edited with a commentary by Bradford
    Chambers. New York, Parents’ Magazine Press [1968] 319 p.
    illus., facsims., ports. (Background books) E185.61.C5

      321
    Clark, Mary T. Discrimination today; guidelines for civic
    action. Foreword by John J. Wright. New York, Hobbs, Dorman
    [1966] 372 p. [E185.61.C63] [TR: E185.615.C595]
      Includes bibliographies.

      322
    Clarke, Jacquelyne J. These rights they seek; a comparison of
    goals and techniques of local civil rights organizations.
    Washington, Public Affairs Press [1962] 85 p. E185.93.A3C55 [TR:
    Clarke, Jacquelyne Mary Johnson]
      Bibliographical references included in "References" (p.
      78-85).

      323
    Commager, Henry S., _comp._ The struggle for racial equality: a
    documentary record, selected and edited by Henry Steele
    Commager. New York, Harper & Row [1967] 260 p. (Harper
    torchbooks. The Academy library, TB1300) E185.61.C72
      "Originally published as part 4, chapter 14, of _Living Ideas
      in America ..._ revised and greatly expanded."

      324
    Congressional Quarterly Service, _Washington, D.C._ Revolution
    in civil rights. 4th ed. Washington, 1968. 119 p. (CQ
    background) KF4757.Z9C6 1968

      325
    Cooke, Paul P. Civil rights in the United States. [Washington]
    Meridian House Foundation [1966] 32 p. illus., ports.
    E185.61.C775

      325a
    Cox, Archibald, Mark D. Howe, _and_ James R. Wiggins. Civil
    rights, the Constitution, and the courts, Cambridge, Harvard
    University Press, 1967. 76 p. KF4757.A5C6
      "Papers ... originally presented in 1965-1966 as a series of
      evening lectures at the Massachusetts Historical Society."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      326
    Dorman, Michael. We shall overcome. [New York, Delacorte Press];
    distributed by the Dial Press [1964] 340 p. E185.61.D69

      327
    Dumond, Dwight L. America’s shame and redemption. Marquette,
    Northern Michigan University Press [1965] xvi, 171 p. port.
    E185.D9

      328
    Facts on File, _New York_. Civil rights, 1960-63; the Negro
    campaign to win equal rights and opportunities in the United
    States, compiled by the editors of Facts on file and News year.
    New York [1964] 152 p. illus., ports. (Interim history)
    E185.61.F16
      A Facts on File publication.

      329
    Farmer, James. Freedom, when? With an introduction by Jacob
    Cohen. New York, Random House [1966, c1965] xxiv, 197 p.
    E185.61.F19

      330
    Fleishman, Stanley, _and_ Sam Rosenwein. The new Civil Rights
    Act, what it means to you! [Los Angeles, Blackstone Book Co.,
    1964] 191 p. DLC-LL [TR: KF4750.F53]

      331
    Franklin, John H., _and_ Isidore Starr, _comps._ The Negro in
    twentieth century America; a reader on the struggle for civil
    rights. New York, Vantage Books [1967] xxii, 542 p. illus.
    E185.61.F79
      Bibliography: p. [539]-542.

      332
    Friedman, Leon, _comp._ The civil rights reader; basic documents
    of the civil rights movement. Foreword by Martin Duberman. New
    York, Walker [1967] xxi, 348 p. E185.61.F857
      Bibliography: p. [347]-348.

      333
    Golden, Harry L. Mr. Kennedy and the Negroes. Cleveland, World
    Pub. Co. [1964] 319 p. group port. E185.61.G58
      Bibliography: p. 309-314.

      334
    Grant, Joanne, _comp._ Black protest; history, documents, and
    analyses, 1619 to the present, edited with introduction and
    commentary by Joanne Grant. [New York, Fawcett World Library,
    1968] 505 p. (The Political perspectives series) E185.G75
      A Fawcett premier book.
      Bibliography: p. [506]-[507].

      335
    Gregory, Dick. The shadow that scares me. Edited by James R.
    McGraw. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1968. 213 p. E185.615.G7

      336
    Handlin, Oscar. Fire-bell in the night; the crisis in civil
    rights. Boston, Little, Brown [1964] 110 p. E185.61.H23

      337
    Hansberry, Lorraine. The movement; documentary of a struggle for
    equality. New York, Simon and Schuster, 1964. 127 p. (chiefly
    illus., ports) E185.61.H24

      338
    Harris, Janet. The long freedom road; the civil rights story.
    Foreword by Whitney M. Young, Jr. New York, McGraw-Hill [1967]
    150 p. E185.61.H27
      Bibliography: p. 147.

      339
    Hedgeman, Anna A. The trumpet sounds; a memoir of Negro
    leadership. New York, Holt, Rinehart and Winston [1964] 202 p.
    E185.97.H44

      340
    Holt, Len. The summer that didn’t end. New York, Morrow, 1965.
    351 p. E185.61.H75
      The struggle for civil rights in Mississippi.

      341
    Imari, _Brother_. War in America; the Malcolm X doctrine.
    Detroit, Malcolm X Society [1968] 64 p. port. E185.615.I45

      342
    Isaacs, Harold R. The new world of Negro Americans. A study from
    the Center for International Studies, Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology. New York, John Day Co. [1963] 366 p. E185.61.I75
      Includes bibliography.

      343
    Jackson, Joseph H. Unholy shadows and freedom’s holy light.
    Nashville, Townsend Press [1967] 270 p. group ports. E185.61.J15
      Bibliography: p. 264-266.

      344
    Jacobs, Paul. Prelude to riot; a view of urban America from the
    bottom. New York, Random House [1968, c1967] 298 p. E185.615.J3
    1968
      "Sponsored by the Center for the Study of Democratic
      Institutions."

      345
    Kahn, Tom. Unfinished revolution. [With forewords by Norman
    Thomas and James Lawson] New York [Socialist Party-Social
    Democratic Federation] 1960. 64 p. illus. E185.61.K335
      Bibliography: p. 60-63.

      346
    Kalven, Harry. The Negro and the First amendment. Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press [1966, c1965] 244 p. (Phoenix books,
    P240) DLC-LL
      "Lectures ... originally given for the Ohio State law Forum on
      April 7, 8, and 9, 1964."
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [215]-244).

      347
    Kennedy, Robert F. Rights for Americans; the speeches of Robert
    F. Kennedy. Edited and with commentary by Thomas A. Hopkins.
    Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill [1964] 262 p. E185.61.K367

      348
    Killian, Lewis M. The impossible revolution? Black power and the
    American dream. New York, Random House [1968] xx, 198 p.
    (Studies in sociology, SS40) E185.615.K48
      Bibliography: p. [189]-191.

      349
    Killian, Lewis M., _and_ Charles Grigg. Racial crisis in
    America; leadership in conflict. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
    Prentice-Hall [1964] 144 p. (A Spectrum book) E185.61.K49
      Includes bibliographies.

      350
    King, Martin Luther. A Martin Luther King treasury. Photographs
    by Roland Mitchell. Yonkers, N.Y., Educational Heritage [1964]
    352 p. illus., ports. (Negro heritage library) E185.61.K535
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 338-348).
      Contents.—Stride toward freedom; the Montgomery
      story.—Strength to love.—The days of Martin Luther King, Jr.:
      a photographic diary.—An appeal to the President of the United
      States.

      351
    King, Martin Luther. Where do we go from here: _Chaos or
    community_? New York, Harper & Row [1967] 209 p. E185.615.K5
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 203-204).
      London ed. (Hodder & Stoughton) has title: _Chaos or
      Community?_

      352
    King, Martin Luther. Why we can’t wait. New York, Harper & Row
    [1964] 178 p. illus., ports. E185.61.K54

      353
    Konvitz, Milton R. A century of civil rights. With a study of
    State law against discrimination, by Theodore Leskes. New York,
    Columbia University Press, 1961. 293 p. DLC-LL [TR: KF4749.K626]
      "Table of statutes": p. [278]-280.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      354
    Kunstler, William M. Deep in my heart. Forewords by James Forman
    and Martin Luther King, Jr. New York, Morrow, 1966. xxvi, 384 p.
    DLC-LL [TR: KF373.K8A3]
      Autobiographical.

      355
    Leinwand, Gerald, _comp._ The Negro in the city. New York,
    Washington Square Press [1968] 191 p. illus. (Problems of
    American society) E185.61.L513
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 179-182).

      356
    Levy, Charles J. Voluntary servitude; whites in the Negro
    movement. New York, Appleton-Century-Crofts [1968] 125 p.
    E185.92.L46
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      357
    Lewis, Anthony. Portrait of a decade; the second American
    revolution [by] Anthony Lewis and the New York times. New York,
    Random House [1964] 322 p. illus. E185.61.L52 1964
      London ed. (Faber) has title: _The Second American Revolution:
      a First-hand Account of the Struggle for Civil Rights._

      358
    Lincoln, Charles Eric, _comp._ Is anybody listening to black
    America? New York, Seabury Press [1968] 280 p. (A Seabury
    paperback SP-54) E185.615.L48
      Includes bibliographical references.

      359
    Lomax, Louis E. The Negro revolt. New York, Harper [1962] 271 p.
    E185.61.L668
      Includes bibliography.

      360
    Mendelsohn, Jack. The martyrs: sixteen who gave their lives for
    racial justice. New York, Harper & Row [1966] 227 p. ports.
    E185.61.M54

      361
    Moral crisis; the case for civil rights, as stated by John F.
    Kennedy [and others] Minnesota, Gilbert Pub. Co. [1964] 185 p.
    illus., ports. E185.61.M79
      On spine: _The Case for Civil Rights._

      362
    Muse, Benjamin. The American Negro revolution; from nonviolence
    to black power, 1963-1967. Bloomington, Indiana University Press
    [1968] 345 p. E185.615.M83

      363
    Nelson, Bernard H. The Fourteenth amendment and the Negro since
    1920. New York, Russell & Russell [1967, c1946] 185 p.
    E185.61.N44 1967
      Bibliography: p. 172-181.

      363a
    Nye, Russel B. Fettered freedom; civil liberties and the slavery
    controversy, 1830-1860. [Rev. ed. East Lansing] Michigan State
    University Press [1964, c1963] 353 p. JC599.U5N9 1964
      Bibliography: p. 319-[343].

      364
    Pain, William. To do justice, by the photographers and editors
    of Black star. [New York] Pyramid Publications, c1965. 104 p.
    illus., ports. (A Pyramid publication) E185.615.P3
      On cover: _To Do Justice; the Heroic Struggle for Human
      Rights._

      365
    Pettigrew, Thomas F. Epitaph for Jim Crow. New York,
    Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith [1964] 59 p. illus.
    E185.61.P48
      "G415."

      366
    Proctor, Samuel D. The young Negro in America, 1960-1980. New
    York, Association Press [1966] 160 p. E185.61.P76
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes by chapters" (p.
      159-160).

      367
    Saunders, Doris E., _ed._ The Kennedy years and the Negro, a
    photographic record. Introduction by Andrew T. Hatcher. Designed
    by Herbert Temple. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1964. 143 p.
    illus., ports. E185.6.S3

      368
    Segal, Ben D., William Korey, _and_ Charles N. Mason, _eds._
    Civil rights in the Nation’s Capital: a report on a decade of
    progress. [New York] National Association of Intergroup
    Relations Officials, 1959. 90 p. illus. E185.93.D6S4
      "Appeared originally as volume 1, no. 5, of the _Journal of
      Inter-group Relations_."

      369
    Smith, Lillian E. Our faces, our words. New York, W. W. Norton
    [1964] 128 p. illus. E185.61.S647

      370
    Sobel, Lester A., _ed._ Civil rights, 1960-66. New York, Facts
    on File [1967] 504 p. (Interim history) E185.61.S66
      A Facts on File publication.

      371
    Southern, David W. The malignant heritage; Yankee progressives
    and the Negro question, 1901-1914. Chicago, Loyola University
    Press, 1968. 116 p. (William P. Lyons master’s essay award,
    1967) E185.61.S685
      Bibliography: p. 101-111.

      372
    Stahl, David, Frederick B. Sussmann, _and_ Neil J. Bloomfield,
    _eds._ The community and racial crises. New York, Practising Law
    Institute [1966] xvii, 364 p. E185.615.S7
      Outgrowth of a forum devoted to the community and racial
      crisis, held in New York City in December 1964.

      373
    Sterling, Dorothy. Tear down the walls! A history of the
    American civil rights movement. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday
    [1968] 259 p. illus., facsims., ports. E185.6.S76
      Bibliography: p. [251]-252.

      374
    Sugarman, Tracy. Stranger at the gates; a summer in Mississippi.
    Illustrated by the author. Foreword by Fannie Lou Hamer. New
    York, Hill and Wang [1966] xiv, 240 p. E185.93.M6S88

      375
    Thomas, Howard E., _and_ Sister Mary Peter. Organizing for human
    rights; a handbook for teachers and students. Dayton, Ohio, G.
    A. Pflaum [c1966] 64 p. illus. E185.615.T5
      "Resource section": p. 39-58.

      376
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Freedom to the free: century
    of emancipation, 1863-1963; a report to the President.
    [Washington, For sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print.
    Off., 1963] 246 p. E185.61.U582
      Bibliography: p. 209-240.

      377
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Hearing held in Cleveland,
    Ohio, April 1-7, 1966. Washington, For sale by the Supt. of
    Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1966. 888 p. illus., maps.
    F499.C6A43

      378
    U.S. _President, 1961-1963_ (_Kennedy_) Civil rights. Message
    relative to civil rights, and a draft of a bill to enforce the
    constitutional right to vote, to confer jurisdiction upon the
    District Courts of the United States to provide injunctive
    relief against discrimination in public accommodations, to
    authorize the Attorney General to institute suits to protect
    constitutional rights in education, to establish a community
    relations service, to extend for four years the Commission on
    Civil Rights, to prevent discrimination in Federally assisted
    programs, to establish a Commission on Equal Employment
    Opportunity, and for other purposes. [Washington, U.S. Govt.
    Print. Off., 1963] 24 p. (88th Congress, 1st session. House of
    Representatives. Document no. 124) E185.61.U5865

      379
    Warren, Robert Penn. Who speaks for the Negro? New York, Vintage
    Books [1966] 454 p. E185.61.W22 1966

      380
    Williams, Robert F. Negroes with guns. Edited by Marc Schleifer.
    New York, Marzani & Munsell [c1962] 128 p. illus. F264.M75W5
      Concerns the Monroe, North Carolina, confrontation.

      381
    Wright, Nathan. Black power and urban unrest; creative
    possibilities. New York, Hawthorn Books [1967] 200 p.
    E185.615.W7
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 195).

      382
    Young, Whitney M. To be equal. New York, McGraw-Hill [1964] 254
    p. E185.61.Y73




07—COOKERY


      383
    Bivins, S. Thomas. The southern cookbook; a manual of cooking
    and list of menus, including recipes used by noted colored cooks
    and prominent caterers. Hampton, Va., Press of the Hampton
    Institute, 1912. 239 p. TX715.B5

      384
    Bowers, Lessie. Plantation recipes. [New York] R. Speller, 1959.
    194 p.  TX715.B76

      385
    Campbell, Tunis G. Hotel keepers, head waiters, and
    housekeepers’ guide. Boston, Printed by Coolidge and Wiley,
    1848. 192 p. illus. TX925.C3

      386
    De Knight, Freda. The Ebony cookbook: a date with a dish; a
    cookbook of American Negro recipes. With a foreword by Gertrude
    Blair. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1962. 390 p. illus. TX715.D326

      387
    Gaskins, Ruth L. A good heart and a light hand; Ruth L. Gaskins’
    collection of traditional Negro recipes. [Alexandria, Va., Fund
    for Alexandria, c1968] 110 p. illus. TX715.G243

      388
    Kaiser, Inez Y. Soul food cookery. New York, Pitman Pub. Co.,
    1968. 90 p. DHU

      389
    Kaufman, William I., _and_ Mary U. Cooper. The art of Creole
    cookery. Illustrated by Margot Tomes. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1962. 227 p. illus. TX725.K333

      390
    [Mahammitt, Sarah H. T.] Recipes and domestic service; the
    Mahammitt School of Cookery. [Omaha, c1939] 160 p. TX715.M246
      "Copyright ... by Mrs. T. P. Mahammitt."

      391
    National Council of Negro Women. The historical cookbook of the
    American Negro. Published under the auspices of the Council’s
    Archives and Museum Dept. Compiled and edited by Sue Bailey
    Thurman, chairman. [Washington] Corporate Press, c1958. 144 p.
    illus. TX715.N326

      392
    Negro Culinary Art Club of Los Angeles. Eliza’s cook book;
    favorite recipes. Los Angeles, Wetzel Pub. Co. [c1936] 101 p.
    TX715.N387

      393
    Ott, Eleanore. Plantation cookery of old Louisiana. With
    decorations by Mary Evans Isom. New Orleans, Harmanson [c1938]
    96 p. illus., facsim.  TX715.O85

      394
    Porter, _Mrs_. M. E. Mrs. Porter’s new southern cookery book,
    and companion for frugal and economical housekeepers; containing
    carefully prepared and practically tested recipes for all kinds
    of plain and fancy cooking. Philadelphia, J. E. Potter [c1871]
    416 p. TX715.P844

      395
    Smith, Myrtle E. A Civil War cook book; typical of the times but
    timely for today. Harrogate, Tenn., Priv. print., Lincoln
    Memorial University [1961] 268 p. illus. TX715.S666
      Bibliography: p. 267-268.




08—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS


      396
    Bell, William K. Fifteen million Negroes and fifteen billion
    dollars. New York, W. K. Bell Publications [1956] 147 p.
     E185.8.B46

      397
    Blair, Lewis H. A Southern prophecy: The prosperity of the South
    dependent upon the elevation of the Negro (1889). Edited, with
    an introduction by C. Vann Woodward. Boston, Little, Brown
    [1964] xlvi, 201 p. facsim., port. E185.61.B66 1964
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      398
    Bradford, Amory. Oakland’s not for burning. New York, D. McKay
    Co. [1968] 248 p. HD5726.O22B7

      399
    Bullock, Henry A. Pathways to the Houston Negro market. [Ann
    Arbor, Mich., Distributed by J. W. Edwards, 1957] 232 p. illus.
    F394.H8B9

      400
    Davis, Robert E. The American Negro’s dilemma; the Negro’s
    self-imposed predicament. New York, Philosophical Library [1954]
    147 p. E185.6.D35

      401
    De Mond, Albert L. Certain aspects of the economic development
    of the American Negro, 1865-1900. Washington, Catholic
    University of America Press, 1945. 187 p. (Catholic University
    of America. Studies in economics, v. 18) E185.8.D4
      Thesis (Ph. D.)—Catholic University of America, 1945.
      Bibliography: p. 163-183.

      402
    District of Columbia. _Dept. of Public Welfare_. The improving
    economic status of the Negro in the District of Columbia. Rev.
    Washington, Division of Research and Statistics, Dept. of Public
    Welfare, 1954. 1 v. (unpaged) illus. E185.93.D6A5 1954c

      403
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ Economic co-operation among Negro
    Americans. Report of a social study made by Atlanta University
    under the patronage of the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
    D.C., together with the proceedings of the 12th Conference for
    the Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta University, on
    Tuesday, May the 28th, 1907. Atlanta, Atlanta University Press,
    1907. 184 p. diagrs. (Atlanta University publications, no. 12)
    E185.5.A88 no. 12 [HD3446.Z5N3]
      "Select bibliography of economic co-operation among Negro
      Americans": p. [6]-9.

      404
    Edwards, Paul K. The southern urban Negro as a consumer. New
    York, Prentice-Hall, 1932. xxiv, 323 p. illus., diagrs., maps.
    E185.6.E35
      Bibliography: p. [309]-315.

      405
    Fein, Rashi. An economic and social profile of the Negro
    American. Washington, Brookings Institution, 1966 [c1965]
    815-846 p. (Brookings Institution reprints, 110) E185.8.F4
      "Reprinted January 1966 ... from _Daedalus_, fall, 1965."
      Includes bibliographical references.

      406
    Fleming, Walter L. The Freedmen’s Savings Bank; a chapter in the
    economic history of the Negro race. Chapel Hill, University of
    North Carolina Press, 1927. 170 p. (Vanderbilt University
    publications) HG2613.W34F6 1927
      "An expansion of a paper ... published in the _Yale Review_ in
      1906."
      Bibliography: p. 17-18, 162-163.

      407
    Ginzberg, Eli, _ed._ The Negro challenge to the business
    community. New York, McGraw-Hill [1964] 111 p. E185.8.G57
      "Highlights of a conference held at Arden House on January 15
      to 17, 1964 under the auspices of the executive program of the
      Graduate School of Business, Columbia University."

      408
    Harris, Abram L. The Negro as capitalist; a study of banking and
    business among American Negroes. Gloucester, Mass., P. Smith,
    1968 [c1936] 205 p. illus. E185.8.H26 1968
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      409
    Henry, Waights G. The Negro as an economic factor in Alabama.
    Nashville, Printed for the author, Publishing House M. E.
    Church, South, Smith & Lamar, agents, 1919. 111 p. E185.93.A3H5
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Boston University.
      "Reference books": p. [107]-111.

      410
    Hill, Timothy A. The Negro and economic reconstruction.
    Washington, Associates in Negro Folk Education, 1937. 78 p.
    (Bronze booklet no. 5) E185.5.B85 no. 5
      "Selected readings" at end of each chapter.

      411
    Holmes, Samuel J. The Negro’s struggle for survival; a study in
    human ecology. Port Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press [1966,
    c1965] 296 p. E185.88.H65 1966
      First published in 1937.
      Bibliography: p. 263-290.

      412
    Johnson, Joseph T. The potential Negro market. New York, Pageant
    Press [1952] 185 p. HF3031.J6

      413
    Miller, Herman P. Poverty and the Negro. [Los Angeles, Institute
    of Government and Public Affairs, University of California,
    1965?] 30 leaves. ([California. University. University at Los
    Angeles. Institute of Government and Public Affairs] MR-37)
    AS36.C2A35 no. 37
      "Paper presented at University of West Virginia Conference on
      Poverty, May 3, 1965."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      414
    National Urban League. Economic and social status of the Negro
    in the United States. [New York, 1961] 32 p. E185.6.N257
      Bibliography: p. 31-32.

      415
    The Negro and the city. New York, Time-Life Books [1968] 159 p.
    col. illus. E185.8.N4 1968
      "Adapted from a special issue [Jan. 1968] of _Fortune_ on:
      'Business and the Urban Crisis.’"
      Contents.—Introduction, by R. C. Weaver.—The deeper shame of
      the cities, by M. Ways.—The new Negro mood, by R.
      Beardwood.—Business reclaims human resources, by G.
      Burck.—More dollars and more diplomas, by E. K.
      Faltermayer.—The St. Louis economic blues, by W. S.
      Rukeyser.—The case against unions, by T. O’Hanlon.—"Our war
      was with the police department," by E. Carruth.—Systems
      engineering invades the city, by L. Lessing.—Mortgages for the
      slums, by W. McQuade.—What business can do for the cities, by
      the editors of _Fortune_.

      416
    Newman, Dorothy K. The Negroes in the United States, their
    economic and social situation. Washington, U.S. Dept. of Labor,
    Bureau of Labor Statistics; for sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S.
    Govt. Print. Off., 1966. 241 p. illus. (U.S. Bureau of Labor
    Statistics. Bulletin no. 1511) HD8051.A62 no. 1511 E185.8.N47
      Bibliography: p. 49-53.

      417
    Phillips, Ulrich B. The slave economy of the Old South; selected
    essays in economic and social history. Edited and with an
    introduction by Eugene D. Genovese. Baton Rouge, Louisiana State
    University Press [1968] xiv, 304 p. HC107.A13P66
      "A bibliography of the printed writings of Ulrich Bonnell
      Phillips, compiled by David M. Potter": p. 291-300.
      Includes bibliographical references.

      418
    Pitts, Nathan A. The cooperative movement in Negro communities
    of North Carolina. Washington, Catholic University of America
    Press, 1950. 201 p. maps. (The Catholic University of America.
    Studies in sociology, v. 33) HD3446.A3N85
      Thesis—Catholic University of America.
      Bibliography: p. [193]-196.

      419
    Schuchter, Arnold. White power, black freedom; planning the
    future of urban America. Boston, Beacon Press [1968] xvii, 650
    p. HT123.S38
      Includes bibliographical references.

      420
    Sterner, Richard M., _and others_. The Negro’s share; a study of
    income, consumption, housing and public assistance [by] Richard
    Sterner in collaboration with Lenore A. Epstein, Ellen Winston
    and others. New York, Harper [1943] 433 p. E185.8.S8

      421
    Stuart, Merah S. An economic detour; a history of insurance in
    the lives of American Negroes. New York, W. Malliet, 1940. xxv,
    339 p. facsims., plates, ports. HG8799.S75
      Bibliography: p. 337-338.

      422
    U.S. _Bureau of Labor Statistics_. The economic situation of
    Negroes in the United States. Rev. [Washington] U.S. Dept. of
    Labor; [for sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off.]
    1962. 32 p. tables. ([U.S. Dept. of Labor] Bulletin S-3)
    E185.8.U529

      423
    U.S. _Bureau of Labor Statistics_. Notes on the economic
    situation of Negroes in the United States. 1957+ [Washington]
    tables. E185.8.U527

      424
    U.S. _Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare_. The Negro
    family’s search for economic security, by Joseph H. Douglass,
    assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Program Analysis.
    [Washington] 1956. 1 v. (various pagings) diagrs., tables.
    E185.8.U558
      Bibliography: p. [1]-11.

      425
    Washington, Booker T., _and_ William E. B. DuBois. The Negro in
    the South, his economic progress in relation to his moral and
    religious development; being the William Levi Bull lectures for
    the year 1907. Philadelphia, G. W. Jacobs [1907] 222 p.
    E185.6.W316
      Contents.—1. The economic development of the Negro race in
      slavery, by B. T. Washington.—2. The economic development of
      the Negro race since its emancipation, by B. T. Washington.—3.
      The economic revolution in the South, by W. E. B. DuBois.—4.
      Religion in the South, by W. E. B. DuBois.—Notes to chapters 3
      and 4 (Bibliography: p. 220-222).

      426
    Whiting, Helen A. J. Climbing the economic ladder. [Atlanta,
    1948] 100 p. illus. E185.8.W48
      "Selected references for understanding and improving Southern
      life": p. 99-100.




09—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Business


      427
    Association for the Study of Negro life and History. The Negro
    as a business man, by J. H. Harmon, Jr., Arnett G. Lindsay, and
    Carter G. Woodson. Washington [c1929] 111 p. [E185.8.A84] [TR:
    E185.8.H25]
      Contents.—The Negro as a local business man.—The Negro in
      banking.—Insurance among Negroes.

      428
    Business leadership and the Negro crisis. Edited by Eli
    Ginzberg. New York, McGraw-Hill [1968] 175 p. E185.8.B8
      Papers presented at a conference conducted by the Graduate
      School of Business of Columbia University at Arden House in
      1968.

      429
    Carter, Wilmoth A. The urban Negro in the South. New York,
    Vantage Press [1962] 272 p. illus. F264.R1C3
      Bibliography: p. 269-272.

      430
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ The Negro in business; report of a
    social study made under the direction of Atlanta University;
    together with the Proceedings of the Fourth Conference for the
    Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta University, May
    30-31, 1899. Atlanta [Atlanta University] 1899. 77 p. (Atlanta
    University publications, no. 4) E185.5.A88 no. 4 E185.8.D83

      431
    Kinzer, Robert H., _and_ Edward Sagarin. The Negro in American
    business; the conflict between separatism and integration. New
    York, Greenberg [1950] 220 p. E185.8.K5
      "An expansion of a thesis written by Robert H. Kinzer and
      submitted [under title: _Separatism or Integration: the
      Dilemma of the Negro in American Business_] to the Graduate
      School of Business Administration of New York University ...
      [for] the degree of master of arts."
      Bibliography: p. 203-210.

      432
    National Conference on Small Business, _Washington, D.C., 1961_.
    Problems and opportunities confronting Negroes in the field of
    business; report. Chairman: Charles C. Diggs, Jr. Editor: H.
    Naylor Fitzhugh. [Washington] U.S. Dept. of Commerce, for sale
    by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1962. 102 p.
    E185.8.N23 1961c
      "Sponsored by an independent committee composed mainly of
      Negroes engaged in business and related activities in
      Government and education and some national organizations."

      433
    Pierce, Joseph A. Negro business and business education, their
    present and prospective development. New York, Harper [1947]
    xiv, 338 p. tables. (Atlanta University publications, no. 24)
    [E185.5.A88 no. 24] E185.8.P5
      "References" at end of most of the chapters.

      434
    Washington, Booker T. The Negro in business. Boston, Hertel,
    Jenkins [c1907] 379 p. plates, ports. [E185.8.W31] [TR:
    HD8081.A65W37 1907]




10—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Employment


      435
    Alexander, Richard D., _and others_. The management of racial
    integration in business; special report to management. Prepared
    under the supervision of Georges F. Doriot. New York,
    McGraw-Hill [1964] 147 p. E185.8.A55
      Bibliography: p. 139-147.

      436
    Becker, Gary S. The economics of discrimination. [Chicago]
    University of Chicago Press [1957] 137 p. diagrs. (Studies in
    economics of the Economics Research Center of the University of
    Chicago) HD4903.5.U58B4
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      437
    Blood, Robert O. Northern breakthrough. Belmont, Calif.,
    Wadsworth Pub. Co. [1968] 157 p. F614.M6B55
      Bibliography: p. 151-152.

      438
    Cayton, Horace R., _and_ George S. Mitchell. Black workers and
    the new unions. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press,
    1939. xviii, 473 p. E185.8.C39
      "Three industries have been chosen for examination: iron and
      steel, meat packing, and railroad car shops."
      Bibliography: p. [458]-467.

      439
    Conference of Community Leaders on Equal Employment Opportunity,
    _Washington, D.C., 1962_. The American dream—equal opportunity;
    report on the Community Leaders’ Conference, sponsored by
    President’s Committee on Equal Opportunity, Washington, D.C.,
    May 19, 1962. [Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1962] 56 p.
    illus. HD4903.5.U58C6 1962c

      440
    Connecticut. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Training of Negroes
    in the skilled trades, prepared by Henry G. Stetler, supervisor,
    Research Division. Hartford, 1954. 62 p. LC2802.C8A52

      441
    Daykin, Jon J. A study of southern Negro police officers in
    eleven selected major mid-south cities. [University, Miss.]
    1965. 137 leaves. HV8145.A13D3
      Thesis (M.A.)—University of Mississippi.
      Bibliography: leaves [128]-137.

      442
    Donald, Henderson H. The Negro migration of 1916-1918.
    Washington, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History,
    1921. 116 p. E185.6.D67
      "Reprinted from the _Journal of Negro History_, v. 6, no. 4,
      October 1921."

      443
    Durham, Philip, _and_ Everett L. Jones. The Negro cowboys. New
    York, Dodd, Mead [1965] 278 p. illus., maps, ports. F596.D8

      444
    Edwards, Gilbert Franklin. The Negro professional class. With a
    foreword by Otis Dudley Duncan. Glencoe, Ill., Free Press [1959]
    224 p. E185.82.E23
      "A development of the author’s doctoral dissertation at the
      University of Chicago."
      Bibliography: p. 215-219.

      445
    Ferman, Louis A. The Negro and equal employment opportunities; a
    review of management experiences in twenty companies. New York,
    Praeger [1968] xv, 195 p. (Praeger special studies in U.S.
    economic and social development) E185.8.F44

      446
    Ferman, Louis A., Joyce L. Kornbluh, _and_ Joe A. Miller,
    _comps_. Negroes and jobs; a book of readings. Foreword by A.
    Philip Randolph. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Press [1968]
    xv, 591 p. E185.8.F45
      Includes bibliographies.

      447
    Foley, Eugene P. The achieving ghetto. [Washington, National
    Press, 1968] 156 p. E185.8.F6
      Bibliographical references included in "Source notes" (p.
      153-156).

      448
    Franklin, Charles L. The Negro labor unionist of New York;
    problems and conditions among Negroes in the labor unions in
    Manhattan with special reference to the N.R.A. and post-N.R.A.
    situations. New York, 1936. 417 p. [E185.8.F732] [TR: H31.C7 no.
    420]
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University, 1936.
      Published also as _Studies in History, Economics and Public
      Law, edited by the Faculty of Political Science of Columbia
      University, no. 420._
      Bibliography: p. 398-402.

      449
    Garfinkel, Herbert. When Negroes march; the March on Washington
    Movement in the organizational politics for FEPC. Glencoe, Ill.,
    Free Press [1959] 224 p.  E185.61.G23
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 194-220).

      450
    Ginzberg, Eli. The Negro potential, by Eli Ginzberg assisted by
    James K. Anderson, Douglas W. Bray [and] Robert W. Smuts. New
    York, Columbia University Press, 1956. xvi, 144 p. tables.
    [E185.8.G58] [TR: HD8081.A44G56 1956]
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [139]-144).

      451
    Gourlay, Jack G. The Negro salaried worker. [New York] American
    Management Association [1965] 103 p. illus. (AMA research study
    70) HD21.A6 no. 70
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      452
    Greene, Lorenzo J., _and_ Myra C. Callis. The employment of
    Negroes in the District of Columbia. Washington, Association for
    the Study of Negro Life and History [1931] 89 p. E185.8.G78

      453
    Greene, Lorenzo, J., _and_ Carter G. Woodson. The Negro wage
    earner. Washington, Association for the Study of Negro Life and
    History [c1930] 388 p. diagrs., tables.  E185.8.G79
      Bibliography: p. [369]-380.

      454
    Hayes, Laurence J. W. The Negro Federal Government worker; a
    study of his classification status in the District of Columbia,
    1883-1938. Washington, Graduate School, Howard University, 1941.
    156 p. diagr., tables. (The Howard University studies in the
    social sciences, v. 3, no. 1) [E185.8.H38] [TR: H31.H66 vol. 3,
    no. 1]
      Thesis (M.A.)—Howard University, 1941.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      455
    Haynes, George E. The Negro at work in New York City; a study in
    economic progress. New York, 1912. 159 p. diagrs., tables.
    E185.93.N56H41
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University, 1912.
      Published also as Studies in History, Economics and Public
      Law, edited by the Faculty of Political Science of Columbia
      University,  v. 49, no. 3, whole no. 124.
      "Select bibliography": p. 154-156.

      456
    Hiestand, Dale L. Economic growth and employment opportunities
    for minorities. Foreword by John F. Henning. Introduction by Eli
    Ginzberg. New York, Columbia University Press, 1964. xx, 127 p.
    HD4903.5.U58H5 1964
      "Another version of this study [is titled] _Economic Growth
      and the Opportunities of Minorities: an Analysis of Changes in
      the Employment of Negroes and Women_."
      Bibliography: p. [125]-127.

      457
    Huson, Carolyn F., _and_ Michael E. Schiltz. College, color, and
    employment; racial differentials in postgraduate employment
    among 1964 graduates of Louisiana colleges. Chicago, National
    Opinion Research Center, 1966. xx, 124 p. (National Opinion
    Research Center. Report no. 116) HM261.A1N3 no. 116
      "Research ... supported by the Office of Manpower Policy,
      Evaluation, and Research, U.S. Department of Labor, under
      grant no. 91-15-66-01."

      458
    Jackson, Luther P. Free Negro labor and property holding in
    Virginia, 1830-1860. New York, D. Appleton-Century Co. [1942]
    xix, 270 p. tables. E185.93.V8J18
      At head of title: The American Historical Association.
      Bibliography: p. 230-238.

      459
    Jackson, Luther P. Negro office-holders in Virginia, 1865-1895.
    Norfolk, Va., Guide Quality Press, 1945, c1946. 88 p. port.
    E185.93.V8J19

      460
    Jacobson, Julius, _ed._ The Negro and the American labor
    movement. Garden City, N.Y., Anchor Books, 1968. 430 p.
    E185.8.J3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 401-426).

      461
    Krislov, Samuel. The Negro in Federal employment: the quest for
    equal opportunity. Minneapolis, University of Minnesota Press
    [1967] 157 p. JK723.N4K7 1967
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      462
    Marshall, F. Ray, _and_ Vernon M. Briggs. The Negro and
    apprenticeship. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press [1967] 283 p.
    E185.8.M24
      "Based on a report prepared under a contract with the Office
      of Manpower Policy, Evaluation and Research, U.S. Department
      of Labor."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      463
    Marshall, F. Ray. The Negro and organized labor. New York, Wiley
    [1965] 327 p. E185.8.M25
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      464
    Marshall, F. Ray. The Negro worker. New York, Random House
    [1967] 180 p. (Studies in labor) [E185.8.M27]
      "SLE5."
      Bibliography: p. [171]-174.

      465
    Mayhew, Leon H. Law and equal opportunity; a study of the
    Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination. Cambridge,
    Harvard University Press, 1968. 313 p. (A Publication of the
    Joint Center for Urban Studies of the Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology and Harvard University) KFM2811.5.N4M3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 297-308).

      466
    National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
    _Labor Dept._ The Negro wage-earner and apprenticeship training
    programs; a critical analysis with recommendations. New York
    [1961] 59 p. E185.8.N2
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 51-59).

      467
    National Conference on Equal Employment Opportunity,
    _Washington, D.C., 1962_. A time for action; proceedings.
    [Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1963] 70 p. ports.
    JK765.N32 1962
      Sponsored by the Dept. of the Army.

      468
    National Industrial Conference Board. Company experience with
    Negro employment. [New York, 1966] 2 v. illus., forms, maps.
    (_Its_ Studies in personnel policy, no. 201) HF5549.A2N27 no.
    201
      "A research report from the Conference Board."
      Bibliography: v. 1, p. 172.

      469
    National Planning Association. _Committee of the South._
    Selected studies of Negro employment in the South, prepared for
    the NPA Committee of the South. Washington, National Planning
    Association [1953-54] 5 v. (483 p.) illus. (_Its_ Reports, no.
    6) HN79.A2N35 no. 6 1953 E185.8.N29
      Bibliographical footnotes.
      Contents.—1. Negro employment in 3 southern plants of
      International Harvester Company, by J. Hope, II.—2. 4 studies
      of Negro employment in the Upper South, by D. Dewey.—3. Negro
      employment in the Birmingham metropolitan area, by L. T.
      Hawley.—4. 2 plants: Little Rock, by E. W. Eckard and B. U.
      Ratchford. 3 companies: New Orleans area, by H. W. Wissner.—5.
      Negro employment practices in the Chattanooga area, by W. H.
      Wesson, Jr.
      —— —— Another issue. [1955] 483 p. illus. (_Its_ Report no. 6)
      HN79.A2N35 no. 6 1955

      470
    National Urban League. _Dept. of Research and Community
    Projects._
    Negro membership in American labor unions. New York [1930] 175
    p. E185.8.N337
      Issued by the agency under a variant name: Department of
      Research and Investigations.

      471
    New York _(State) State Commission for Human Rights. Research
    Division._ Apprentices, skilled craftsmen, and the Negro: an
    analysis. [New York, New York State Commission Against
    Discrimination, 1960] 137 p. tables. HD4885.U52N42
      Bibliography: p. 135-137.

      472
    Nicol, Helen O. Negro women workers in 1960 [by Helen O. Nicol
    with the assistance of Merci L. Drake. Washington] U.S. Dept. of
    Labor, Women’s Bureau; [for sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S.
    Govt. Print. Off., 1964] 55 p. illus., maps. (U.S. Women’s
    Bureau. Bulletin 287) HD6093.A35 no. 287
      "Supersedes Women’s Bureau publication [Leaflet no. 19] _Negro
      Women and Their Jobs_, dated 1954." By Miriam Keeler.

      473
    Norgren, Paul H., _and others_. Employing the Negro in American
    industry; a study of management practices. New York, Industrial
    Relations Counselors, 1959. xiv, 171 p. (Industrial relations
    monographs, no. 17) E185.8.N64

      474
    Norgren, Paul H., _and_ Samuel E. Hill. Toward fair employment.
    With the assistance of F. Ray Marshall. New York, Columbia
    University Press, 1964. xiv, 296 p. HD4903.5.U58N6
      Bibliography: p. [281]-283.

      475
    Northrup, Herbert R., _and_ Richard L. Rowan, _eds_. The Negro
    and employment opportunity; problems and practices. Ann Arbor,
    Bureau of Industrial Relations, Graduate School of Business
    Administration, University of Michigan [1965] 411 p. illus.,
    map. E185.8.N649
      Papers presented at a conference held on November 13, 1964,
      and sponsored by the Labor Relations Council of the Wharton
      School of Finance and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania.
      Includes bibliographical references.

      476
    Northrup, Herbert R. The Negro in the aerospace industry.
    Philadelphia, Industrial Research Unit, Wharton School of
    Finance and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania; distributed by
    University of Pennsylvania Press [1968] 90 p. illus. (The Racial
    policies of American industry. Report no. 2) E185.5.R3 no. 2
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      477
    Northrup, Herbert R. The Negro in the automobile industry.
    Philadelphia, Industrial Research Unit, Wharton School of
    Finance and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania; distributed by
    University of Pennsylvania Press [1968] 75 p. (The Racial
    policies of American industry. Report no. 1) E185.5.R3 no. 1
      University of Pennsylvania. Wharton School of Finance and
      Commerce. Industrial Research Unit. Research report series.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      477a
    Northrup, Herbert R. Organized labor and the Negro. Foreword by
    Sumner H. Slichter. New York, Harper [1944] xviii, 312 p.
    tables. E185.8.N65
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [259]-288).
      "Selected bibliography": p. 289-302.

      478
    Paynter, John H. Horse and buggy days with Uncle Sam. New York,
    Margent Press, 1943. 190 p. ports. E185.8.P38
      Employment of Negroes under Civil Service.

      479
    Ringe, Helen H. Negroes in the United States: their employment
    and economic status. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1952
    [i.e. 1953] 58 p. diagrs., maps. (U.S. Bureau of Labor
    Statistics. Bulletin no. 1119) [HD8051.A62 no. 1119] E185.8.R55
      Bibliography: p. 53-55.

      480
    Ross, Arthur M., _and_ Herbert Hill, _eds_. Employment, race,
    and poverty. [New York, Harcourt, Brace & World, 1967] 598 p.
    E185.8.R6
      One of a series of books from the four-year program of
      research and conferences on the subject of unemployment and
      the American economy supported by a Ford Foundation grant to
      the Institute of Industrial Relations at the Berkeley campus
      of the University of California.

      481
    Ross, Malcolm H. All manner of men. New York, Reynal & Hitchcock
    [1948] 314 p. HD4903.R63
      A study of racial prejudice in employment. The author served
      as chairman of the Fair Employment Practices Committee during
      the Second World War.

      482
    Rowan, Richard L. The Negro in the steel industry. Philadelphia,
    Industrial Research Unit, Wharton School of Finance and
    Commerce, University of Pennsylvania; distributed by University
    of Pennsylvania Press [1968] 148 p. (The Racial policies of
    American industry. Report no. 3) E185.5.R3 no. 3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      483
    Ruchames, Louis. Race, jobs & politics; the story of FEPC. New
    York, Columbia University Press, 1953. 255 p. HD4903.5.U58R8
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [215]-240).

      484
    Rutledge, Aaron L., _and_ Gertrude D. Z. Gass. Nineteen Negro
    men; personality & manpower retraining. San Francisco,
    Jossey-Bass, 1967. xv, 109 p. E185.8.R8

      485
    Sovern, Michael I. Legal restraints on racial discrimination in
    employment. New York, Twentieth Century Fund, 1966. 270 p.
    DLC-LL [TR: KF3464.S6]
      "Notes" (54 p.) in pocket.
      Bibliography: p. 259-264.

      486
    Spero, Sterling D., _and_ Abram L. Harris. The black worker; the
    Negro and the labor movement. Port Washington, N.Y., Kennikat
    Press [1966, c1959] 509p. E185.8.S74 1966
      First published in 1931.
      Bibliography: p. 485-496.

      487
    Staupers, Mabel K. No time for prejudice; a story of the
    integration of Negroes in nursing in the United States. New
    York, Macmillan [1961] 206 p. illus. RT83.5.S75

      488
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights. State Advisory Committees
    Division._ Reports on apprenticeship by the Advisory Committees
    to the United States Commission on Civil Rights in California,
    Connecticut, District of Columbia, Florida, Maryland, New
    Jersey, New York, Tennessee, and Wisconsin. [Washington] 1964.
    158 p. E185.8.U553
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      489
    U.S. _Dept. of Labor. Division of Negro Economics._ The Negro at
    work during the world war and during reconstruction; statistics,
    problems, and policies relating to the greater inclusion of
    Negro wage earners in American industry and agriculture. Second
    study on Negro labor. Washington, Govt. Print. Off., 1921. 144
    p. diagrs., plates, tables. E185.8.U57

      490
    Wachtel, Dawn. The Negro and discrimination in employment. Ann
    Arbor, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, University
    of Michigan-Wayne State University [c1965] 96, [16] p.
    [E185.8.W2] [TR: E185.8.D33]
      Bibliography: p. [97]-[122].

      491
    Wesley, Charles H. Negro labor in the United States, 1850-1925;
    a study in American economic history. New York, Russell &
    Russell [1967, c1927] 343 p. map. E185.8.W4 1967
      Bibliography: p. 321-330.

      492
    Woodson, Carter G. The Negro professional man and the community,
    with special emphasis on the physician and the lawyer.
    Washington, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History
    [c1934] xviii, 365 p. E185.82.W88




11—ECONOMIC CONDITIONS—Housing


      493
    Abrams, Charles. Forbidden neighbors; a study of prejudice in
    housing. New York, Harper [1955] 404 p. HD7293.A616

      494
    Abrams, Charles. Race bias in housing. [New York? 1947] 31 p.
    E185.89.H6A2
      "Sponsored jointly by the American Civil Liberties Union,
      National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
      [and] American Council on Race Relations."

      495
    Arter, Rhetta M. WINS pilot preview; report of an
    action-research, demonstration project on the process of
    achieving equal housing opportunities, Women’s Integrating
    Neighborhood Services, sponsored by the Educational Foundation
    of National Council of Negro Women. [New York, Research and
    Action Associates, c1961] 202 p. illus. E185.89.H6A7

      496
    Avins, Alfred, _ed._ Open occupancy vs. forced housing under the
    Fourteenth amendment; a symposium on anti-discrimination
    legislation, freedom of choice, and property rights in housing.
    New York, Book-mailer [c1963] 316 p. maps. DLC-LL [TR:
    KF5740.A75A48 1963]
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      497
    Chicago. _Mayor’s Commission on Human Relations._ The Trumbull
    Park Homes disturbances; a chronological report, August 4, 1953,
    to June 30,1955. [Chicago, 1955?] 63 p. E185.89.H6C5

      498
    Clark, Henry. The church and residential desegregation; a case
    study of an open housing covenant campaign. New Haven, College &
    University Press [1965] 254 p. E185.89.H6C55
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 234-254).

      499
    Commission on Race and Housing. Where shall we live? Report.
    Berkeley, University of California Press, 1958. 77 p.
    HD7293.C6427

      500
    Connecticut. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Racial integration in
    private residential neighborhoods in Connecticut, by Henry G.
    Stetler, supervisor, Research Division. Hartford, 1957. 55 p.
    E185.89.H6C6

      501
    Connecticut. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Racial integration in
    public housing projects in Connecticut, prepared by Henry G.
    Stetler, supervisor, Research Division. Hartford, 1955 [i.e.
    1956] 72 p. E185.89.H6C63

      502
    Deutsch, Morton, _and_ Mary E. Collins. Interracial housing; a
    psychological evaluation of a social experiment. Minneapolis,
    University of Minnesota Press [1951] xv, 173 p. E185.89.H6D4
      Reprint issued by Russell & Russell, 1968.
      Bibliography: p. 149.

      503
    Duncan, Otis D., _and_ Beverly Duncan. The Negro population of
    Chicago; a study of residential succession. [Chicago] University
    of Chicago Press [1957] xxiv, 367 p. diagrs., maps (part fold.),
    tables. (Monograph series of the Chicago Community Inventory of
    the University of Chicago) F548.9.N3D8
      Bibliography: p. 355-358.

      504
    Foote, Nelson N., and others. Housing choices and housing
    constraints. New York, McGraw-Hill, 1960. 450 p. illus. (ACTION
    series in housing and community development) HD7293.F62
      Includes bibliography.

      505
    Glazer, Nathan, _and_ Davis McEntire, _eds_. Studies in housing
    & minority groups. With an introduction by Nathan Glazer.
    Special research report to the Commission on Race and Housing.
    Berkeley, University of California Press, 1960. xvii, 228 p.
    maps, tables. (Publications of the Commission on Race and
    Housing) E185.89.H6G55

      506
    Goldblatt, Harold S. Westchester real estate brokers, builders,
    bankers & Negro home-buyers; a report to the Housing Council of
    the Urban League of Westchester County, Inc. on opportunities
    for private open-occupancy housing in Westchester. [n.p.] 1954.
    51 leaves. E185.89.H6G6

      507
    Grier, Eunice S., _and_ George W. Grier. Discrimination in
    housing; a handbook of fact. [New York, Anti-defamation League
    of B’nai B’rith, 1960] 67 p. (Freedom pamphlets) HD7293.G7

      508
    Grier, Eunice S., _and_ George W. Grier. Privately developed
    interracial housing; an analysis of experience. Special research
    report to the Commission on Race and Housing. Berkeley,
    University of California Press, 1960. 264 p. E185.89.H6G69
      Bibliography: p. [251]-257.

      509
    Grier, George W., _and_ Eunice S. Grier. Equality and beyond;
    housing segregation and the goals of the Great Society. Chicago,
    Quadrangle Books, 1966. 115 p. maps. HD7293.G72
      "Published in cooperation with the Anti-defamation League of
      B’nai B’rith."
      Based on the authors’ _Discrimination in Housing_.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 101-109).

      510
    Johnson, Philip A. Call me neighbor, call me friend: the case
    history of the integration of a neighborhood on Chicago’s south
    side. Garden City, N. Y., Doubleday, 1965. 184 p. illus.
    F548.9.N3J6
      Bibliography: p. [177]-183.

      511
    Jones, William H. The housing of Negroes in Washington, D.C.; a
    study in human ecology. Washington, Howard University Press,
    1929. 191 p. diagrs., form, maps, plates, port. E185.93.D6J6
      "An investigation made under the auspices of the Interracial
      Committee of the Washington Federation of Churches."
      Bibliography: p. [157]-158.

      512
    Knight, Charles L. Negro housing in certain Virginia cities.
    Richmond, Va., William Byrd Press, 1927. 158 p. illus.
    (Publications of the University of Virginia. Phelps-Stokes
    fellowship papers, no. 8) E185.93.V8K6

      513
    Kraus, Henry. In the city was a garden; a housing project
    chronicle. New York, Renaissance Press, 1951. 255 p. F869.S38K7
      Housing of Negroes in San Pedro, California.

      514
    Laurenti, Luigi. Property values and race; studies in seven
    cities. Special research report to the Commission on Race and
    Housing [prepared under the direction of Davis McEntire]
    Berkeley, University of California Press, 1960. xix, 256 p.
    diagrs., maps, tables.  E185.89.H6L3
      Bibliography: p. [249]-252.

      515
    Leaman, Samuel H. A study of housing decisions by Negro home
    owners and Negro renters. Chapel Hill [N.C.] 1967. 136 leaves.
    (Environmental policies and urban development thesis series, no.
    8) E185.89.H6L4
      Thesis (Master of Regional Planning)—University of North
      Carolina.
      Bibliography: leaves [132]-136.

      516
    Long, Herman H., _and_ Charles S. Johnson. People vs. property;
    race restrictive covenants in housing. Nashville, Fisk
    University Press, 1947. 107 p. diagrs., maps. E185.89.H6L7
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      517
    Messner, Stephen D. Minority groups and housing; a selected
    bibliography, 1950-67. Selected and edited under the direction
    of Stephen D. Messner. [Storrs, Center for Real Estate and Urban
    Economic Studies, University of Connecticut, 1968] 60 p.
    (University of Connecticut. Center for Real Estate and Urban
    Economic Studies. General series, no. 1) HD251.C745 no. 1

      518
    Meyerson, Martin, _and_ Edward C. Banfield. Politics, planning,
    and the public interest; the case of public housing in Chicago.
    Glencoe, Ill., Free Press [1955] 353 p. illus. HD7304.C4M4

      519
    Needham, Maurice D. Negro Orleanian: status and stake in a
    city’s economy and housing. New Orleans, Tulane Publications
    [1962] 278 p. illus. F379.N5N33 [TR: Needham, Maurice d’Arlan]

      520
    New York _(State) State Commission for Human Rights_. In search
    of housing; a study of experiences of Negro professional and
    technical personnel in New York State, by Eunice and George
    Grier. [New York] State Commission Against Discrimination, 1958.
    52 p. E185.93.N56N44

      521
    Northwood, Lawrence K., _and_ Ernest A. T. Barth. Urban
    desegregation; Negro pioneers and their white neighbors.
    Seattle, University of Washington Press, 1965. xv, 131 p. map.
    E185.89.H6N6
      Bibliography: p. 121-131.

      522
    Potomac Institute, _Washington, D.C._ The Federal role in equal
    housing opportunity; an affirmative program to implement
    Executive Order 11063. [Prepared by Arthur J. Levin, staff
    director. Washington, 1964] 28 p. [HD7293.P626]

      523
    President’s Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership,
    Washington, D.C., 1931. Negro housing; report of the Committee
    on Negro Housing, Nannie H. Burroughs, chairman; prepared for
    the committee by Charles S. Johnson; edited by John M. Gries and
    James Ford. Washington [c1932] xiv, 282 p. plates. E185.86.P87
      On cover: _Physical Aspects; Social and Economic Factors; Home
      Ownership and Financing._
      Bibliography: p. 260-271.

      524
    Rapkin, Chester, _and_ William G. Grigsby. The demand for
    housing in racially mixed areas; a study of the nature of
    neighborhood change. Special research report to the Commission
    on Race and Housing and the Philadelphia Redevelopment
    Authority. Berkeley, University of California Press, 1960. xx,
    177 p. illus., maps, tables. (Publications of the Commission on
    Race and Housing) F158.9.N3R3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      525
    Reid, Margaret G. Housing and income. [Chicago] University of
    Chicago Press [1962] xx, 415 p. diagrs., tables. HD7293.A3R4
      Bibliography: p. 406-409. Bibliographical footnotes.

      526
    Schorr, Alvin L. Slums and social insecurity, an appraisal of
    the effectiveness of housing policies in helping to eliminate
    poverty in the United States. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off.
    [1963] 168 p. (U.S. Social Security Administration. Division of
    Research and Statistics. Research report no. 1) HD7123.A39 no. 1
      Bibliography: p. 151-168.

      527
    Sternlieb, George. The tenement landlord. New Brunswick, N.J.,
    Urban Studies Center, Rutgers, State University [c1966] xvii,
    269 p. illus., plates. HD7304.N6S7
    Includes bibliographies.

      528
    Taeuber, Karl E., _and_ Alma F. Taeuber. Negroes in cities;
    residential segregation and neighborhood change. Chicago, Aldine
    Pub. Co. [1965] xvii, 284 p. illus., maps. (Population Research
    and Training Center monographs)  E185.89.H6T3
      Bibliography: p. 267-277.

      529
    Tillman, James A. Not by prayer alone; a report on the Greater
    Minneapolis Interfaith Fair Housing Program. Philadelphia,
    United Church Press [1964] 223 p. E185.89.H6T5

        530
    Tilly, Charles, Wagner D. Jackson, _and_ Barry Kay. Race and
    residence in Wilmington, Delaware. [New York] Bureau of
    Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1965. 145
    p. illus., maps. E185.89.H6T56
      Bibliography: p. 135-140.

      531
    Tucker, Sterling. Why the ghetto must go. [New York, Public
    Affairs Committee, 1968] 28 p. illus. (Public affairs pamphlet,
    no. 423) E185.615.T83
      Abstracted from the author’s _Beyond the Burning: Life and
      Death of the Ghetto_.

      532
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Civil rights U.S.A.; housing
    in Washington, D.C. [Washington, 1962] 45 p. tables.
    E185.89.H6U47
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      533
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Family housing and the Negro
    serviceman; 1963 staff report. Submitted to the United States
    Commission on Civil Rights, October 1963. [Washington, 1964] 48
    p. E185.89.H6U47 1964
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      534
    U.S. _Housing and Home Finance Agency. Office of Program
    Policy._ Our nonwhite population and its housing: the changes
    between 1950 and 1960. Washington [U.S. Govt. Print. Off.] 1963.
    104 p. tables. E185.89.H6U5 1963a

      535
    Vose, Clement E. Caucasians only: the Supreme Court, the NAACP,
    and the restrictive covenant cases. Berkeley, University of
    California Press, 1959. 296 p. illus., maps, ports. DLC-LL [TR:
    KF662.Z9V67]
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [253]-286).

      536
    Weaver, Robert C. The Negro ghetto. New York, Russell & Russell
    [1967, c1948] xviii, 404 p. illus., maps. E185.89.H6W4 1967
      Bibliography: p. 371-375.

      537
    West Virginia. _Bureau of Negro Welfare and Statistics._ Negro
    housing survey of Charleston, Keystone, Kimball, Wheeling and
    Williamson. Prepared and issued by Bureau of Negro Welfare and
    Statistics of the State of West Virginia, 1938. Isaac M.
    Carpenter, director. [Charleston, Jarrett Print. Co., 1938] 35
    p. illus., diagrs., maps, tables. E185.6.W42

      538
    Wolff, Reinhold P., _and_ David K. Gillogly. Negro housing in
    the Miami area; effects of the postwar building boom. [Coral
    Gables, Fla.] c1951. 22 p. illus. (Bureau of Business and
    Economic Research, University of Miami. Area development series,
    no. 1) HC107.F62D52 no. 1

      539
    Woofter, Thomas J., _and_ Madge H. Priest. Negro housing in
    Philadelphia, a study made for the Institute of Social and
    Religious Research and the Interracial Commission.
    [Philadelphia] 1927. 30 p. maps. E185.86.W905
      "Published for distribution in Philadelphia by the Friends’
      Committee on Interests of the Colored Race, Whittier Center
      Housing Company, Philadelphia Housing Association."




12—EDUCATION


      540
    Alabama. University. _Bureau of Educational Research._ A study
    of Stillman Institute, a junior college for Negroes, conducted
    by the Bureau of Educational Research, College of Education,
    University of Alabama; edited by Paul W. Terry, director [and]
    L. Tennent Lee, associate director. University, University of
    Alabama Press [1947] xxx, 304 p. illus., plates, ports. (_Its_
    Studies in education, no. 8 [i.e. 9]) [LC2852.T8652A6]

      541
    Anderson, Margaret. The children of the South. With a foreword
    by Ralph McGill. New York, Farrar, Straus and Giroux [1966] xiv,
    208 p. LC2801.A83

      542
    Ashmore, Harry S. The Negro and the schools. Foreword by Owen J.
    Roberts. [2d ed.] Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina
    Press [1954] xv, 239 p. illus., maps. NcU [TR: LC2801.A87]
        "This edition contains the full text of the Court decision
        (except for technical footnotes) and has been revised to
        bring the legal history of segregation up to date."
        Bibliography: p. 218-220.

      543
    Badger, Henry G. Statistics of Negro colleges and universities:
    students, staff, and finances, 1900-1950. Washington, Federal
    Security Agency, Office of Education, 1951. 16 p. tables. ([U.S.
    Office of Education] Circular no. 293) [L111.A72 no. 293
    LC2781.B3] [TR: L111.A72 no. 448]
      Also designated _Statistical Circular_.
      —— —— [Supplement] Statistics of Negro colleges and
      universities, 1951-52 and fall of 1954. [Washington] U.S.
      Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare, Office of Education
      [1955] 16 p. tables. ([U.S. Office of Education] Circular no.
      448) L111.A72 no. 448

      544
    Bates, Daisy G. The long shadow of Little Rock, a memoir. New
    York, D. McKay Co. [1962] 234 p. illus. F419.L7B3
      The Little Rock school crisis.

      545
    Beam, Lura. He called them by the lightning; a teacher’s odyssey
    in the Negro South, 1908-1919. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill
    [1967] 230 p. E185.93.S8B4

      546
    Bede, _Brother_. A study of the development of Negro education
    under Catholic auspices in Maryland and the District of
    Columbia, by Michael Francis Rouse (Brother Bede, C.F.X.).
    Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press, 1935. 125 p. (The Johns Hopkins
    University studies in education, no. 22) LB5.J6 no. 22
    LC2802.M3B4 1935
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Johns Hopkins University.
      "A selected and annotated bibliography": p. 115-121.

      547
    Berman, Daniel M. It is so ordered: the Supreme Court rules on
    school segregation. New York, Norton [1966] 161 p. facsims.
    DLC-LL [TR: KF4155.B4]
      Appendixes (p. [131]-149): The texts of the Supreme Court
      opinions: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka (1945);
      Bolling v. Sharpe (1945).—The implementation decision: Brown
      v. Board of Education of Topeka (1955).
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      548
    Bernstein, Abraham A. The education of urban populations.
    Consulting editor, Paul Nash. New York, Random House [1967] xvi,
    398 p. LC5119.B4
      Bibliography: p. [379]-386.

      549
    Blaustein, Albert P. Civil rights U.S.A.: public schools; cities
    in the North and West, 1963: Camden and environs. Staff report
    submitted to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. [Washington,
    1964] 55 p. maps, tables. LA332.C3B55
      Bibliographical references included in "Footnotes" (p. 46-48).

      550
    Blaustein, Albert P., _and_ Clarence C. Ferguson. Desegregation
    and the law; the meaning and effect of the school segregation
    cases. [2d ed. rev.] New York, Vintage Books [1962] 359 p.
    (Caravelle editions) DLC-LL [KF4155.B55 1962]
      Bibliographical references included in "Table of authorities"
      (p. 313-345).

      551
    Blossom, Virgil T. It has happened here. New York, Harper [1959]
    209 p. F419.L7B53
      Concerns desegregation of public schools in Little Rock.

      552
    Bond, Horace M. The education of the Negro in the American
    social order. With a new preface and an additional chapter by
    the author. New York, Octagon Books, 1966. xxvi, 531 p. illus.
    LC2801.B65 1966
      First published in 1934.
      Bibliography: p. 491-511.

      553
    Bond, Horace M. Negro education in Alabama; a study in cotton
    and steel. Washington, Associated Publishers, 1939. 358 p.
    illus., diagrs., maps. LC2802.A2B6 1939
      "The Susan Colver Rosenberger prize essay, 1937, the
      University of Chicago."
      Issued also as thesis (Ph.D.), University of Chicago, under
      title: _Social and Economic Influences on the Public Education
      of Negroes in Alabama, 1865-1930._
      Bibliography: p. 293-304.

      554
    Bouma, Donald H., _and_ James Hoffman. The dynamics of school
    integration; problems and approaches in a northern city. Grand
    Rapids, W. B. Erdmans Pub. Co. [1968] 158 p. LB3062.B6
      Bibliography: p. 149-154.

      555
    Brickman, William W., _and_ Stanley Lehrer, _eds_. The countdown
    on segregated education. New York, Society for the Advancement
    of Education, 1960. 175 p. LB3062.B7

      556
    Brown, Charles A. The origin and development of secondary
    education for Negroes in the metropolitan area of Birmingham,
    Alabama. [Birmingham, Commercial Print. Co., c1959] 98 p. illus.
    LC2803.B5B7

      557
    Brown, Hugh V. E-qual-ity education in North Carolina among
    Negroes. [Raleigh, N.C., Irving-Swain Press, 1964] 198 p.
    illus., ports. LC2802.N8B69
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      558
    Brown, Hugh V. A history of the education of Negroes in North
    Carolina. [Raleigh, Irving Swain Press, 1961] 167 p. illus.
    LC2802.N8B7

      559
    Brown, Robert R. Bigger than Little Rock. Greenwich, Conn.,
    Seabury Press, 1958. 150 p. F419.L7B7

      559a
    Brownlee, Frederick L. Heritage of freedom, a centenary story of
    ten schools offering education in freedom. Philadelphia, United
    Church Press [1963] 108 p. illus. LC2801.B85

      560
    Bullock, Henry A. A history of Negro education in the South;
    from 1619 to the present. Cambridge, Harvard University Press,
    1967. 399 p. illus. LC2801.B9
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 291-314).

      561
    Caldwell, Dista H. The education of the Negro child. New York,
    Carlton Press, 1961. 51 p. (A Reflection book) LC2731.C3

      562
    Caliver, Ambrose. A background study of Negro college students,
    by Ambrose Caliver, senior specialist in the education of
    Negroes, Office of Education. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print.
    Off., 1933. 132 p. diagrs., tables. (U.S. Office of Education.
    Bulletin, 1933, no. 8) L111.A6 1933 no. 8 LC2801.C28
      At head of title: United States Department of the Interior.
      Harold L. Ickes, Secretary. Office of Education. William John
      Cooper, Commissioner.
      Bibliography: p. 116-117.

      563
    Caliver, Ambrose. A personnel study of Negro college students; a
    study of the relations between certain background factors of
    Negro college students and their subsequent careers in college.
    New York, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1931. 146 p.
    diagrs., forms. (Teachers College, Columbia University.
    Contributions to education, no. 484) LC2801.C3 1931 [LB5.C8 no.
    484]
      "The study includes 450 cases, comprising the entering
      students at Fisk University for the years 1926, 1927, and
      1928."—p. 9.
      Issued also as thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 124-128.

      564
    Campbell, Ernest Q. When a city closes its schools, by Ernest Q.
    Campbell, with the assistance of Charles E. Bowerman [and]
    Daniel O. Price. Chapel Hill, Institute for Research in Social
    Science, University of North Carolina, 1960. 195 p. tables.
    (University of North Carolina, Institute for Research in Social
    Science. Monographs) LA381.N8C3

      565
    Clark, Kenneth B., _and_ Lawrence Plotkin. The Negro student at
    integrated colleges. [New York] National Scholarship Service and
    Fund for Negro Students, 1963. 59 p. LC2801.C55
        Bibliography: p. 53-54.

      566
    Clift, Virgil A., Archibald W. Anderson, _and_ Henry Gordon
    Hullfish, _eds_. Negro education in America; its adequacy,
    problems, and needs. New York, Harper [1962] xxiii, 315 p.
    (Yearbook of the John Dewey Society, 16th) L101.U6J6 16th, 1962
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      567
    [Coleman, James S.] Equality of educational opportunity;
    [summary report. Washington] U.S. Dept. of Health, Education,
    and Welfare, Office of Education; [for sale by the Supt. of
    Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1966] 33 p. illus. [LA209.2.C58]
    [TR: LC213.2.C65]
      "OE-38000."
      A slightly different version of the summary included, as
      section 1, in the main report of the survey.
      "The survey was carried out by the National Center for
      Educational Statistics of the U.S. Office of Education."

      568
    Coles, Robert. The desegregation of southern schools: a
    psychiatric study. New York, Anti-defamation League of B’nai
    B’rith, 1963. 25 p. LB3062.C6
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      569
    Conant, James B. Slums and suburbs; a commentary on schools in
    metropolitan areas. New York, McGraw-Hill [1961] 147 p.
    LC5115.C6

      570
    Crain, Robert L. The politics of school desegregation;
    comparative case studies of community structure and
    policy-making. With the assistance of Morton Inger, Gerald A.
    McWorter [and] James J. Vanecko. Chicago, Aldine Pub. Co. [1968]
    xviii, 390 p. (National Opinion Research Center. Monographs in
    social research, 14) LA209.2.C7
      Bibliography: p. 373-377.

      571
    Cuthbert, Marion V. Education and marginality; a study of the
    Negro woman college graduate. New York, 1942. xviii, 167 p.
    tables. LC2781.C8
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University, 1942.
      Bibliography: p. 161-166.

      572
    Dabney, Lillian G. The history of schools for Negroes in the
    District of Columbia, 1807-1947. Washington, Catholic University
    of America Press, 1949. 287 p. LC2802.D65D3
      Thesis—Catholic University of America.
      Bibliography: p. 255-277.

      573
    Damerell, Reginald G. Triumph in a white suburb; the dramatic
    story of Teaneck, N.J., the first town in the Nation to vote for
    integrated schools. Introductions by Robert J. Havighurst and
    Neil V. Sullivan. New York, W. Morrow, 1968. 351 p. maps.
    LA333.T4D3

      574
    Davis, William R. The development and present status of Negro
    education in east Texas. New York, Teachers College, Columbia
    University, 1934. 150 p. illus., diagrs., maps. (Teachers
    College, Columbia University. Contributions to education, no.
    626) LC2802.T4D3 1934a LB5.C8 no. 626
      Issued also as thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 139-150.

      575
    Day, Richard E. Civil rights, U.S.A.; public schools, Southern
    States, 1963: North Carolina. Staff report submitted to the
    United States Commission on Civil Rights [Washington? 1963?] 60
    p. maps. LA340.D3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 42-48).

      576
    Derbigny, Irving A. General education in the Negro college.
    Stanford University, Stanford University Press [1947] 255 p.
    LC2781.D4
      Bibliography: p. 245-249.

      577
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ The college-bred Negro; report of a
    social study made under the direction of Atlanta University;
    together with the Proceedings of the Fifth Conference for the
    Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta University, May
    29-30, 1900. Atlanta, Atlanta University Press, 1900. 115 p.
    (Atlanta University publications, no. 5) E185.5.A88 no. 5
    LC2781.D8 1900
      "A select bibliography of the American Negro for general
      readers": p. 6-9.

      578
    DuBois, William E. B., and Augustus G. Dill, _eds_. The common
    school and the Negro American; report of a social study made by
    Atlanta University under the patronage of the trustees of the
    John F. Slater Fund, with the Proceedings of the 16th Annual
    Conference for the Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta
    University, on Tuesday, May 30th, 1911. Atlanta, Atlanta
    University Press, 1911. 140 p. (The Atlanta University
    publications, no. 16) [LC2771.D7] [TR: E185.5.A88 no. 16]
      "A select bibliography of common school education for Negro
      Americans": p. [9]-12.

      579
    Florida. _Attorney General._ Oliver Brown, et al., appellants,
    _v._ Board of Education of Topeka, Shawnee County, Kansas, et
    al. Harry Briggs, Jr., et al., appellants, _v._ R. W. Elliott,
    et al. Dorothy E. Davis, et al., appellants, _v._ County School
    Board of Prince Edward County, Virginia, et al. Frances B.
    Gebhart, et al., petitioners, _v._ Ethel Louise Belton, et al.
    Amicus curiae brief of the attorney general of Florida. Richard
    W. Ervin, attorney general of the State of Florida. Ralph E.
    Odum, assistant attorney general, State of Florida.
    [Tallahassee, 1954] 243 p. FU
      At head of title: In the Supreme Court of the United States.
      October term, 1954. No.-.

      580
    Forten, Charlotte L. Journal; with an introduction and notes by
    Ray Allen Billington. New York, Dryden Press [1953] 248 p. maps.
    LA2317.F67A3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [205]-244).
      The life of the Sea Islands Negroes is described in this diary
      of a Negro teacher during 1854-64.

      581
    Gallagher, Buell G. American caste and the Negro college. With a
    foreword by William H. Kilpatrick. New York, Gordian Press, 1966
    [c1938] 463 p. illus. LC2781.G3 1966
      Issued also as thesis, Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. [419]-443.

      582
    Gates, Robbins L. The making of massive resistance; Virginia’s
    politics of public school desegregation, 1954-1956. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press [1964] xx, 222 p. illus.,
    maps. LA379.G3
      Bibliography: p. 215-218.

      583
    Ginzberg, Eli, _and others_. The middle-class Negro in the white
    man’s world. New York, Columbia University Press, 1967. 182 p.
    E185.82.G5
      Findings from case studies initiated in 1964 by the
      Conservation of Human Resources Project, Columbia University.

      584
    Gordon, Edmund W., _and_ Doxey A. Wilkerson. Compensatory
    education for the disadvantaged; programs and practices,
    preschool through college. New York, College Entrance
    Examination Board, 1966. 209 p. LC4091.G57
      Bibliography: p. 194-198.

      585
    Green, Donald R., _and_ Warren E. Gauerke. If the schools are
    closed: a critical analysis of the private school plan. Atlanta,
    Southern Regional Council, 1959. 40 p. LB3062.G73

      586
    Green, Robert L., _and others_. The educational status of
    children during the first school year following four years of
    little or no schooling. [East Lansing] School for Advanced
    Studies, College of Education, Michigan State University, 1966.
    126 leaves. forms. LC2802.V8G7
      Cooperative research project no. 2498 supported by the
      Cooperative Research Program of the Office of Education, U.S.
      Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare.
      Includes bibliographies.

      587
    Greene, Harry W. Holders of doctorates among American Negroes:
    an educational and social study of Negroes who have earned
    doctoral degrees in course, 1876-1943. Boston, Meador Pub. Co.
    [1946] 275 p. LC2781.G7
      Bibliography: p. 247-254.

      588
    Greene, Mary F., _and_ Orletta Ryan. The schoolchildren growing
    up in the slums. New York, Pantheon Books [1966, c1965] 227 p.
    LC5133.N4G7

      589
    Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry. Committee on Social
    Issues. Emotional aspects of school desegregation; a report by
    psychiatrists. [New York, Group for the Advancement of
    Psychiatry, 1960] 47 p. LB3062.G75 1960
      "An abbreviated and less technical version of Report no. 37,
      _Psychiatric Aspects of School Desegregation, May, 1957._"
      Includes bibliographical references.

      590
    Gurin, Patricia, _and_ Daniel Katz. Motivation and aspiration in
    the Negro college. Ann Arbor, Mich., Survey Research Center,
    Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, 1966.
    xvi, 346 p. LC2781.G8
      Final report.
      Project no. 5-0787. Contract no. OE-4-10-095. Research
      performed under contract with the U.S. Office of Education.
      Bibliography: p. 341-346.

      591
    Guzman, Jessie P. Some achievements of the Negro through
    education. 2d rev. ed. Tuskegee Institute, Ala., Dept. of
    Records and Research, 1951. 41 leaves. (Records and research
    pamphlet, no. 1) E185.96.G8 1951
      Bibliography: p. 39-40.

      592
    Guzman, Jessie P. Twenty years of court decisions affecting
    higher education in the South, 1938-1958. [Tuskegee Institute,
    Ala.] 1960. 36 p. [DLC-LL] [TR: KF4153.36.G8]

      593
    Hansen, Carl F. Miracle of social adjustment: desegregation in
    the Washington, D.C. schools. [New York, Anti-defamation League
    of B’nai B’rith, 1957] 70 p. illus. (Freedom pamphlets)
    LB3062.H3
      —— Addendum: a five year report. [New York, Anti-defamation
      League of B’nai B’rith, 1960] 31 p. LB3062.H3 Suppl.

      594
    Hayes, Rutherford B., _Pres. U.S._ Teach the freeman; the
    correspondence of Rutherford B. Hayes and the Slater Fund for
    Negro Education, 1881-1887. Edited by Louis D. Rubin. [Baton
    Rouge] Louisiana State University Press [1959] 2 v. LC2707.J6

      595
    Hill, Herbert, _and_ Jack Greenberg. Citizen’s guide to
    desegregation; a study of social and legal change in American
    life. Boston, Beacon Press [1955] 185 p. [DLC-LL] [TR:
    KF4155.Z9H54]

      596
    Holley, Joseph W. Education and the segregation issue; a program
    of education for the economic and social regeneration of the
    southern Negro. New York, William-Frederick Press, 1955. 62 p.
    illus. E185.97.H714

      597
    Holley, Joseph W. You can’t build a chimney from the top; the
    South through the life of a Negro educator. New York,
    William-Frederick Press, 1948. 226 p. illus., ports.
    E185.97.H715

      598
    Holmes, Dwight O. W. The evolution of the Negro college. New
    York, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1934. 221 p.
    (Teachers College, Columbia University. Contributions to
    education, no. 609) LC2801.H57 1934a LB5.C8 no. 609
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 211-221.

      599
    Humphrey, Hubert H., _ed._ School desegregation: documents and
    commentaries. New York, Crowell [1964] 314 p. LB3062.H8 1964a
      "Also published under the title _Integration vs.
      Segregation._"
      Bibliography: p. 305-308.

      600
    Hundley, Mary G. The Dunbar story, 1870-1955. With an
    introduction by Robert C. Weaver. New York, Vantage Press [1965]
    179 p. [4] plates. LD7501.W3D8
      About Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C.
      "Alma mater. Words by Dr. A. J. Cooper. Music by Miss M. L.
      Europe": (close score, for chorus SATB): plate [4].
      Includes bibliographies.

      601
    In their own words; a student appraisal of what happened after
    school desegregation. Analysis by Mark A. Chesler. Atlanta,
    Southern Regional Council [1967] 76 p. LB3062.I45

      602
    Integrated Education. Learning together; a book on integrated
    education. Edited by Meyer Weinberg. Chicago, Integrated
    Education Associates, 1964. 222 p. LB3062.I5
      Contains all the articles published in the first six numbers
      of _Integrated Education_, which started publication in
      January 1963.
      Bibliography: p. 211-222.

      603
    International Research Associates. Access to public libraries; a
    research project prepared for the Library Administration
    Division, American Library Association. Chicago, American
    Library Association, 1963. xxiii, 160 p. map, tables. Z711.9.I5
      Bibliography: p. 154-156.

      604
    Jaffe, Abram J., Walter Adams, _and_ Sandra G. Meyers. Negro
    higher education in the 1960’s. New York, Praeger [1968] xxvii,
    290 p. illus. (Praeger special studies in U.S. economic and
    social development) LC2781.J3
      Bibliography: p. [285]-290.

      605
    Johnson, Charles S. The Negro college graduate. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1938. xvii, 399 p. diagrs.,
    maps (part fold.), tables. LC2781.J6
      Bibliography: p. 378-384.

      606
    Kendall, Robert. White teacher in a black school. New York,
    Devin-Adair [1964] 241 p. LC2803.L6K4

      607
    Kilpatrick, James J. The Southern case for school segregation.
    [New York] Crowell-Collier Press [1962] 220 p. E185.61.K5
      "A bibliographical note": p. 213-220.

      608
    Knapp, Robert B. Social integration in urban communities; a
    guide for educational planning. New York, Bureau of
    Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1960. 196
    p. (Teachers College studies in education) LB3062.K55
      Bibliography: p. 192-196. Bibliographical footnotes.

      609
    Kohl, Herbert R. Teaching the unteachable; the story of an
    experiment in children’s writing. Introduction by John Holt.
    [New York, New York Review, 1967] 63 p. illus. (A New York
    review book) LC2803.N5K6 1967

      610
    Kohl, Herbert R. 36 children. Illustrations by Robert George
    Jackson. [New York] New American Library [1967] 227 p. illus.
    LC2803.H3K6 1967
      Includes letters, stories, etc., by the author’s students in
      an East Harlem elementary school.

      611
    Kornhauser, Stanley H. Planning for the achievement of quality
    integrated education in desegregated schools; a composite report
    on the recommendations of workshop participants. Report writer
    and coordinator: Stanley H. Kornhauser. Editor: Martin
    Silverman. [New York, Board of Education, City of New York,
    Office of Intergroup Education] 1968. 100 p. HT1506.K65
      Report of a workshop for teachers held May 6, 13, and 20,
      1967, and sponsored by the Board of Education’s Office of
      Integration and Human Relations.

      612
    Kozol, Jonathan. Death at an early age; the destruction of the
    hearts and minds of Negro children in the Boston public schools.
    Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1967. 240 p. LC2803.B7K6
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [235]-240).

      613
    McGinnis, Frederick A. The education of Negroes in Ohio.
    Wilberforce, Ohio, 1962. 104 p. LC2802.O5M2

      614
    McGinnis, Frederick A. A history and an interpretation of
    Wilberforce University. Wilberforce, Ohio [Blanchester, Ohio,
    Printed at the Brown Pub. Co.] 1941. 215 p. plates, ports.
    LC2851.W62M2
      Bibliography: p. 203-208.

      615
    McGrath, Earl J. The predominantly Negro colleges and
    universities in transition. [New York] Published for the
    Institute of Higher Education by the Bureau of Publications,
    Teachers College, Columbia University [1965] xv, 204 p. map.
    (Publications of the Institute of Higher Education.) LC2801.M28
      Bibliography: p. 194-204.

      616
    McMillan, Lewis K. Negro higher education in the State of South
    Carolina. [Orangeburg? S.C., 1953, c1952] 296 p. facsims.
    LC2802.S6M25

      617
    Mallery, David. Negro students in independent schools. Boston,
    National Association of Independent Schools [1963] 93 p.
    LC2731.M25
      "This monograph is no. 8 in a series of studies initiated by
      the Committee on Educational Practices of the National Council
      of Independent Schools and ... continued under the direction
      of its successor, the Committee on Research [later Committee
      on Educational Practices] of the National Association of
      Independent Schools."

      618
    Maryland. _Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations._
    Desegregation in the Baltimore city schools. [Study sponsored by
    the Maryland Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations
    and the Baltimore Commission on Human Relations. Baltimore,
    1955] 32 p. LB3062.M32

      619
    Maryland. _Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations._
    The report of a study on desegregation in the Baltimore city
    schools, by Elinor Pancoast and others. [Baltimore, 1956] 114 p.
    LB3062.M34
      Prepared under the direction of a joint committee representing
      the Maryland Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations
      and the Baltimore Commission on Human Relations.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      620
    Meece, Leonard E. Negro education in Kentucky; a comparative
    study of white and Negro education on the elementary and
    secondary school levels. Lexington, Ky., University of Kentucky
    [1938] 180 p. diagrs., maps. (Bulletin of the Bureau of School
    Service, College of Education, University of Kentucky. v. 10,
    no. 3) LC2802.K4M4
      Bibliography: p. [176]-178.

      621
    Meredith, James H. Three years in Mississippi. Bloomington,
    Indiana University Press [1966] 328 p. LD3412.9.M4A3
      Autobiographical.
      An account of the experiences of the first Negro to gain
      admission to the University of Mississippi.

      622
    Meyer, Gladys E. Parent action in school integration; a New York
    experience. New York, United Parents Associations of New York
    City [1961] 46 p. LB3062.M4

      623
    Morgan, John W. The origin and distribution of the graduates of
    the Negro colleges of Georgia. Milledgeville, Ga., Priv. print.,
    1940. 118 p. map, tables. E185.82.M84
      Bibliography: p. 117-118.

      624
    Muse, Benjamin. Ten years of prelude: the story of integration
    since the Supreme Court’s 1954 decision. New York, Viking Press
    [1964] 308 p. E185.61.M989
      Bibliography: p. 289-291. "Reference notes": p. 292-297.

      625
    National Education Association of the United States. _Research
    Division._ Studies of educational problems involved in school
    integration. [Washington, 1960] 31 p. LB3062.N3

      626
    National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students.
    Opportunities in inter-racial colleges, edited by Richard L.
    Plaut, executive vice-chairman. New York, 1951. 240 p. LC2801.N3

      627
    Noble, Jeanne L. The Negro woman’s college education. New York,
    Teachers College, Columbia University, 1956. 163 p. tables. (TC
    studies in education) LC1605.N6
      Bibliography: p. 145-150.

      628
    Norfleet, Marvin B. Forced school integration in the U.S.A. New
    York, Carlton Press, 1961. 248 p. LB3062.N57

      629
    North Carolina. _Division of Negro Education._ Some tasks of
    union school principals in North Carolina, by S. E. Duncan,
    Division of Negro Education. Raleigh [1955] 141 p. LC2802.N8A52
    1955

      630
    Pennington, Edgar L. Thomas Bray’s Associates and their work
    among the Negroes. Worcester, Mass., The Society, 1939. 95 p.
    LC2801.P45
      At head of title: American Antiquarian Society.
      "Reprinted from the Proceedings of the American Antiquarian
      Society for Oct., 1938."

      631
    Phelps-Stokes Fund. Ladders to improvement; report of a project
    for the improvement of instruction in secondary schools. Aaron
    Brown, editor. New York, 1960. 249 p. illus., diagrs., maps.
    LC2707.P45
      Bibliography: p. 231-249.

      632
    Plaut, Richard L. Blueprint for talent searching; America’s
    hidden manpower. [New York] National Scholarship Service and
    Fund for Negro Students [1957] 41 p. LB2338.P56

      633
    Poverty, education, and race relations; studies and proposals.
    [By] William C. Kvaraceus, John S. Gibson [and] Thomas J.
    Curtin. With contributions by Minna K. Barnett [and others]
    Boston [Published for the Lincoln Filene Center, Tufts
    University, Medford, Mass. by] Allyn and Bacon [1967] 226 p.
    LC2801.P63
      "Most of these selected papers were drawn from the educational
      television course, Education and Race Relations."
      Bibliographical footnotes. Bibliography: p. 201-210.

      634
    Range, Willard. The rise and progress of Negro colleges in
    Georgia, 1865-1949. Athens, University of Georgia Press [1951]
    254 p. [Phelps-Stokes fellowship studies, no. 15] E185.5.G35 no.
    15 LC2802.G4R35
      Bibliography: p. 236-248.

      635
    Record, Wilson, _and_ Jane C. Record, _eds._ Little Rock, U.S.A.
    San Francisco, Chandler Pub. Co. [1960] 338 p. illus. (Materials
    for analysis) LA242.L5R4
      A chronological account of the integration of Central High
      School, Little Rock, Arkansas.

      636
    Sexton, Patricia C. Education and income; inequalities of
    opportunity in our public schools. Foreword by Kenneth B. Clark.
    New York, Viking Press, 1961. 298 p. illus. LA210.S4

      637
    Smith, Robert C. They closed their schools; Prince Edward
    County, Virginia, 1951-1964. Chapel Hill, University of North
    Carolina Press [1965] 281 p. LA380.P74S6
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [267]-281).

      638
    Southern Education Reporting Service. Southern schools: progress
    and problems, prepared by staff members and associates of
    Southern Education Reporting Service. Edited by Patrick McCauley
    and Edward D. Ball. Data collection directed by Bennie
    Carmichael. Chapters contributed by Tom Flake [and others] With
    introductions by Relman Morin [and] John A. Griffin. Nashville
    [1959] 174 p. illus., tables. LA201.S6

      639
    Southern Education Reporting Service. A statistical summary,
    State by State, of segregation-desegregation activity affecting
    southern schools from 1954 to present, together with pertinent
    data on enrollment, teachers, colleges, litigation and
    legislation. Rev. Nashville, 1961. 49 p. LB3062.S58 1961

      640
    Southern Education Reporting Service. With all deliberate speed;
    segregation-desegregation in southern schools. Prepared by staff
    members and associates of Southern Education Reporting Service:
    Bert Collier [and others] Edited by Don Shoemaker. New York,
    Harper [1957] 239 p. LB3062.S6
      Bibliography: p. 218-224.

      641
    Spellman, Cecil L. Rough steps on my stairway; the life history
    of a Negro educator. New York, Exposition Press [1953] 273 p.
    LC2731.S65

      642
    Swint, Henry L. The northern teacher in the South, 1862-1870.
    New York, Octagon Books, 1967. 221 p. map. LC2801.S9 1967
      Reprint of the 1941 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 201-207.

      643
    Trillin, Calvin. An education in Georgia; the integration of
    Charlayne Hunter and Hamilton Holmes. New York, Viking Press
    [1964] 180 p. LB3062.T7

      644
    Trubowitz, Sidney. A handbook for teaching in the ghetto school.
    Chicago, Quadrangle Books [1968] 175 p. LC4091.T7
      Bibliography: p. 147-168.

      645
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Civil rights U.S.A.: public
    schools, cities in the North and West, 1962; staff reports.
    [Washington, For sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print.
    Off., 1962] 309 p. illus., maps (part fold.) LB3062.U63

      646
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Civil rights U.S.A.: public
    schools, Southern States, 1962; staff reports. [Washington, For
    sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1962] 217 p.
    LA209.2.A47
        Includes bibliographical notes.

      647
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Equal protection of the laws
    in public higher education, 1960. [Washington, 1961] xv, 355 p.
    diagrs., maps, tables. DLC-LL [TR: KF4155.A35 1961]
      Bibliography: p. 329-332.

      648
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Racial isolation in the
    public schools; a report. Washington, For sale by the Supt. of
    Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off. [1967] 2 v. LA210.A45
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      649
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights_. Southern school segregation,
    1966-67; a report. [Washington] 1967. 163 p. [LA210.A46]
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      650
    U.S. _Congress. House. Committee on Education and Labor._
    Integration in public education programs. Hearings before the
    Subcommittee on Integration in Federally Assisted Public
    Education Programs of the Committee on Education and Labor,
    House of Representatives, Eighty-seventh Congress, second
    session, on H.R. 6890 [and others]. Washington, U.S. Govt.
    Print. Off., 1962. 2 pts. (720 p.) illus. [LB3062.U635] [TR:
    KF27.E3 1962f]
      Hearings held Feb. 27-June 15, 1962.

      651
    U.S. _Congress. House. Committee on Education and Labor._
    Integration in public education programs. Report of the
    Subcommittee on Integration in Federally Assisted Public
    Education Programs. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1962.
    138 p. illus. LB3062.U636
      At head of title: 87th Cong., 2d sess. Committee print.
      Bibliography: p. 98.

      651a
    U.S. _Office of Education._ Negro education; a study of the
    private and higher schools for colored people in the United
    States. Prepared in cooperation with the Phelps-Stokes Fund
    under the direction of Thomas Jesse Jones, specialist in the
    education of racial groups, Bureau of Education. Washington,
    Govt. Print. Off., 1917. 2 v. illus., maps (1 fold.), plates,
    tables (part fold.) (Bulletin, 1916, no. 38-39) [L111.A6 1916
    no. 38-39 LC2801.U64] LC2801.A5 1917 [TR: E185.82.U58]
      At head of title: Department of the Interior. Bureau of
      Education.

      652
    U.S. _Office of Education._ Survey of Negro colleges and
    universities, prepared in the Division of Higher Education,
    Arthur J. Klein, chief. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off.,
    1929. 964 p. tables. (_Its_ Bulletin, 1928, no. 7) L111.A6 1928
    no. 7 LC2801.A38
      At head of title: Department of the Interior. Bureau of
      Education.
      Each chapter also issued separately in 1928.
      Contents.—1, 2, and 3. Introduction, control and finance,
      education service.—4. Alabama.—5. Arkansas.—6. Delaware and
      Maryland.—7. District of Columbia.—8. Florida.—9. Georgia.—10.
      Kentucky.—11. Louisiana.—12. Mississippi and Oklahoma.—13.
      Missouri.—14. North Carolina.—15. Ohio and West Virginia.—16.
      Pennsylvania.—17. South Carolina.—18. Tennessee.—19.
      Texas.—20. Virginia.

      653
    U.S. _Office of Education_. _Division of Vocational Education._
    Negro farm families can feed themselves; a handbook for
    teachers. Federal Security Agency, Paul V. McNutt,
    administrator. U.S. Office of Education, John W. Studebaker,
    commissioner. Washington, U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1942. 52 p.
    illus., diagrs., tables. [_Its_ Leaflet no. 8] [LC1045.A27 no.
    8]
      Text continued on p. [3] of cover.
      "Prepared jointly by the Agricultural Education Service and
      Home Economics Education Service."
      "Prepared in the interest of the national nutrition program by
      the Vocational Division of the U.S. Office of Education.
      Issued by the Office of Defense Health and Welfare
      Services."—Verso of title page.
      Revision of U.S. Office of Education. Vocational Division.
      Misc[ellany] 2563, "Negro Farm Families Can Feed Themselves."
      "Suggested references on teaching units": p. 49-[53].

      654
    Virginia. _Commission on Constitutional Government._ Did the
    Court interpret or amend? The meaning of the Fourteenth
    amendment, in terms of a State’s power to operate racially
    separate public schools, as defined by the courts. [Richmond,
    1960] 43 p. (Historic statements and papers expounding the role
    of the States in their relation to the central government, 5)
    [Vi] [TR: LAW]

      655
    Washington, Booker T. My larger education; being chapters from
    my experience. Illustrated from photographs. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, Page, 1911. 313 p. plates, ports. [E185.97.W28] [TR:
    E185.97.W4A35 1911]

      656
    Washington, Booker T., _ed._ Tuskegee & its people: their ideals
    and achievements. New York, Appleton, 1905. xiv, 354 p. illus.
    LC2851.T82W2
      Reprint issued by Negro Universities Press, 1969.
      Contents.—1. The school and its purposes.—2. Autobiographies
      by graduates of the school.

      657
    Washington Center for Metropolitan Studies, _Washington, D.C._
    In search of a future; a pilot study of career-seeking
    experiences of selected high school graduates in Washington,
    D.C. Washington [196-] 117 leaves. LC2803.W3W35

      658
    Weinberg, Meyer, _comp_. Integrated education, a reader. Beverly
    Hills, Calif., Glencoe Press [1968] 376 p. illus., maps.
    LB3062.W42
      Consists of selections from the magazine, _Integrated
      Education_.
      Includes bibliographies.

      659
    Wiggins, Samuel P. The desegregation era in higher education
    [by] Sam P. Wiggins, director, Southern Study in Higher
    Education. Berkeley, Calif., McCutchan Pub. Corp. [1966] 106 p.
    illus. LB2341.W54 [TR: Wiggins, Sam P.]
      Includes bibliographical references.

      660
    Wilkerson, Doxey A. Special problems of Negro education.
    Prepared for the Advisory Committee on Education. Washington,
    U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1939. xvi, 171 p. tables. ([U.S.]
    Advisory Committee on Education. Staff study no. 12) L111.A93
    no. 12 LC2801.W5
      "Publications of the committee": p. 171.

      661
    Wilson, Charles H. Education for Negroes in Mississippi since
    1910. Boston, Meador Pub. Co. [1947] 641 p. illus., ports.
    LC2802.M7W5
      Bibliography: p. 595-607.

      662
    Woodson, Carter G. The education of the Negro prior to 1861. New
    York, Arno Press, 1968. 454 p. (The American Negro, his history
    and literature) LC2741.W7 1968
      Reprint of the 2d ed., 1919.
      Bibliography: p. 399-434.

      663
    Work Conference on Curriculum and Teaching in Depressed Urban
    Areas, _Columbia University_, 1962. Education in depressed
    areas; [papers]. A. Harry Passow, editor. New York, Bureau of
    Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1963. 359
    p. tables. LC5105.W6 1962
      Includes bibliographies.

      664
    Wright, Marion M. T. The education of Negroes in New Jersey. New
    York, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1941. 227 p.
    (Teachers College, Columbia University. Contributions to
    education, no. 815) LC2802.N5W7 1941
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 212-227.




13—ENTERTAINMENT


      665
    Bond, Frederick W. The Negro and the drama; the direct and
    indirect contribution which the American Negro has made to drama
    and the legitimate stage, with the underlying conditions
    responsible. Washington, Associated Publishers [c1940] 213 p.
    PS338.N4B6
      Bibliography: p. 202-208.

      666
    Fletcher, Tom. 100 years of the Negro in show business; the Tom
    Fletcher story. New York, Burdge [1954] 337 p. illus.
    [ML3561.N4F5] [TR: ML3556.F63 1954]

      667
    Hughes, Langston, _and_ Milton Meltzer. Black magic; a pictorial
    history of the Negro in American entertainment. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1967] 375 p. illus., ports.
    PN2286.H75

      668
    Isaacs, Edith J. R. The Negro in the American theatre. New York,
    Theatre Arts, 1947. 143 p. illus., ports. PN2286.I8

      669
    Jerome, Victor J. The Negro in Hollywood films. New York, Masses
    & Mainstream [1950] 64 p. PN1995.9.N4J4
      "An expansion of a lecture ... delivered at a public forum
      held under the auspices of the Marxist cultural magazine,
      _Masses & Mainstream_ ... New York, on February 3, 1950."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      670
    Mitchell, Loften. Black drama; the story of the American Negro
    in the theatre. New York, Hawthorn Books [1967] 248 p. illus.,
    ports. PS338.N4M5

      671
    Patterson, Lindsay, _comp._ Anthology of the American Negro in
    the theatre; a critical approach. New York, Publishers Co.
    [1967] xiv, 306 p. illus., facsims., ports. (International
    library of Negro life and history) PN2226.P3
      Published under the auspices of the Association for the Study
      of Negro Life and History.
      Bibliography: p. [293]-294.

      672
    Sandle, Floyd L. The Negro in the American educational theatre:
    an
    organizational development, 1911-1964. [Grambling? La.] 1964.
    xviii, 202 p. illus., ports. PN3182.S3
      Bibliography: p. 199-202.




14—FOLK-LORE AND FOLK-TALES


      673
    Abrahams, Roger D. Deep down in the jungle ...; Negro narrative
    folklore from the streets of Philadelphia. Hatboro, Pa.,
    Folklore Associates, 1964. 287 p. illus. GR103.A2
      Bibliography: p. 269-275.

      674
    Adams, Edward C. L. Congaree sketches; scenes from Negro life in
    the swamps of the Congaree and tales by Tad and Scip of heaven
    and hell with other miscellany. With an introduction by Paul
    Green. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1927.
    xvii, 116 p. PZ3.A2114Co

      675
    Ballowe, Hewitt L. The Lawd sayin’ the same; Negro folk tales of
    the Creole country. Introduction by Donald Joseph. [Baton Rouge]
    Louisiana State University Press [1947] xvi, 254 p. illus.
    PZ3.B2162Law

      676
    Bennett, John. The doctor to the dead; grotesque legends & folk
    tales of old Charleston. New York, Rinehart [1946] xv, 260 p.
    illus. GR103.B4

      677
    Botkin, Benjamin A., _ed._ A treasury of Mississippi River
    folklore; stories, ballads, traditions, and folkways of the
    mid-American river country. Foreword by Carl Carmer. New York,
    Crown Publishers [1955] xx, 620 p. illus. GR109.B58
      Includes melodies with words.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      677a
    Bradford, Roark. Ol’ man Adam and his chillun; being the tales
    they tell about the time when the Lord walked the earth like a
    natural man. With drawings by A. B. Walker. New York, Harper,
    1928. xxiv, 264 p. illus. PS3503.R2215O6 1928

      678
    Bradford, Roark. This side of Jordan. With drawings by Erich
    Berry. New York, Harper, 1929. 255 p. illus. PZ3.B7254Th

      679
    Brewer, John Mason, _comp._ American Negro folklore.
    Illustrations by Richard Lowe. Chicago, Quadrangle Books, 1968.
    xviii, 386 p. illus., music. GR103.B66

      680
    Brewer, John Mason. Aunt Dicy tales; snuff-dipping tales of the
    Texas Negro. Foreword by Roy Bedichek. Illustrations by John T.
    Biggers. [Austin? Tex.] 1956. 80 p. illus. GR103.B67

      681
    Brewer, John Mason. Dog ghosts, and other Texas Negro folk
    tales. Drawings by John T. Biggers. Foreword by Chapman J.
    Milling. Austin, University of Texas Press [1958] 124 p. illus.
    GR103.B68

      682
    Brewer, John Mason. The Word on the Brazos; Negro preacher tales
    from the Brazos bottoms of Texas. Foreword by J. Frank Dobie;
    illustrations by Ralph White, Jr. Austin, University of Texas
    Press, 1953. 109 p. illus. GR103.B7

      683
    Brewer, John Mason. Worser days and better times; the folklore
    of the North Carolina Negro. With preface & notes by Warren E.
    Roberts. Drawings by R. L. Toben. Chicago, Quadrangle Books
    [1965] 192 p. illus. GR103.B72
      Bibliography: p. 17-18.

      684
    Carmer, Carl L. Stars fell on Alabama. New York, Hill and Wang
    [1961, c1934] 291 p. illus. (American century series, AC37)
    F326.C275 1961

      685
    Chappell, Louis W. John Henry; a folk-lore study. Port
    Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press [1968] 144 p. (Kennikat Press
    series in Negro culture and history) PS461.J6C5 1968
      Reprint of the 1933 ed.
      Bibliography: p. [144]. Bibliographical footnotes.

      686
    Christensen, _Mrs._ A. M. H. Afro-American folk lore; told round
    cabin fires on the Sea Islands of South Carolina. Boston, J. G.
    Cupples Co. [1892] xiv, 116 p. plates. PZ8.1.C462A

      687
    Courlander, Harold. Terrapin’s pot of sense. Illustrated by
    Elton Fax. New York, Holt [1957] 125 p. illus. PZ8.1.C8Te
      Short stories.

      688
    Dobie, James Frank, _ed._ Follow de drinkin’ gou’d. Austin,
    Texas Folk-Lore Society, c1928. 201 p. music. (Publications of
    the Texas Folk-Lore Society, no. 7) [ICN] [TR: GR109.D6 1965]
      "Proceedings of the thirteenth annual session (1927) of the
      Texas Folk-Lore Society": p. [181]-182.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      689
    Dobie, James Frank, _ed._ Tone the bell easy. [Facsim. ed.]
    Dallas, Southern Methodist University Press [1965, c1932] 199 p.
    illus., music. (Texas Folklore Society. Publication no. 10)
    GR108.D55 1965a
      "Proceedings of the Texas Folk-Lore Society, 1932": p.
      [186]-187.

      690
    Dorson, Richard M., _comp._ American Negro folktales, collected
    with introduction and notes by Richard M. Dorson. Greenwich,
    Conn., Fawcett Publications [1967] 378 p. (A Fawcett premier
    book, t357) GR103.D58
      Selected primarily from the compiler’s _Negro Folktales in
      Michigan_, 1956, and _Negro Tales from Pine Bluff, Arkansas,
      and Calvin, Michigan_, 1958.
      Bibliography: p. [379]-[381].

      691
    Dorson, Richard M., _ed._ Negro folktales in Michigan.
    Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1956. 245 p. illus.
    GR103.D6

      692
    Dorson, Richard M., _ed._ Negro tales from Pine Bluff, Arkansas,
    and Calvin, Michigan. Bloomington, Indiana University Press,
    1958. xviii, 292 p. (Indiana University publication. Folklore
    series, no. 12) GR108.D6
      In 2 pts.; pt. 1 consists of tales by various informants; pt.
      2, tales by James Douglas Suggs.
      Bibliography: p. 289-292. Includes bibliographical references.

      693
    Duncan, Eula G. Big Road Walker. Based on stories told by Alice
    Cannon; illustrated by Fritz Eichenberg. New York, F. A. Stokes
    Co., 1940. 121 p. illus. PZ8.1.D87Bi

      694
    Gonzales, Ambrose E. The black border; Gullah stories of the
    Carolina coast (with a glossary). Columbia, S.C., State Co.,
    1922. 348 p. E185.93.S7G6 [GR103.G6]

      694a
    Gonzales, Ambrose E. With Aesop along the black border.
    Columbia, S.C., State Co., 1924. xiv, 298 p. GR103.G65
      "The fables contained in this volume were ... published in the
      _State_ between August 1923 and February 1924."

      695
    Harris, Joel Chandler. Uncle Remus: his songs and his sayings.
    With a foreword by Marc Connelly and woodcuts by Seong Moy. New
    York, For the members of the Limited Editions Club, 1957. xviii,
    158 p. illus. PZ7.H242Un45

      696
    Hughes, Langston, _and_ Arna W. Bontemps, _eds._ The book of
    Negro folklore. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1958. 624 p. illus.
    GR103.H74

      697
    Hurston, Zora N. Mules and men; with an introduction by Frank
    Boas. 10 illustrations by Miguel Covarrubias. Philadelphia,
    Lippincott, 1935. 342 p. illus., plates. GR103.H8
      Contents.—pt. 1. Folk tales.—pt. 2. Hoodoo.—Appendix. 1. Negro
      songs with music (p. 309-[331]). 2. Formulae of hoodoo
      doctors. 3. Paraphernalia of conjure. 4. Prescriptions of root
      doctors.

      698
    Jackson, Bruce, _comp._ The Negro and his folklore in
    nineteenth-century periodicals, edited, with an introduction, by
    Bruce Jackson. Austin, Published for the American Folklore
    Society by the University of Texas Press [1967] xxiii, 374 p.
    (Publications of the American Folklore Society. Bibliographical
    and special series, v. 18) GR103.J3
      Includes spirituals (principally unaccompanied).
      Bibliography: p. 353-367.

      699
    Johnson, Guy B. Folk culture on St. Helena Island, South
    Carolina. Foreword by Don Yoder. Hatboro, Pa., Folklore
    Associates, 1968 [c1930] xxi, 183 p.  E185.93.S7J67 1968
      Includes music.
      Bibliography: p. 174-179.

      700
    Johnson, Guy B. John Henry; tracking down a Negro legend. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1929. 155 p. facsim.
    (University of North Carolina. Social study series) PS461.J6J6
    [ML3556.J7J7]
      Includes music.
      "Bibliography of John Henry": p. [152]-155.

      701
    Jones, Charles C. Negro myths from the Georgia coast told in the
    vernacular. Boston, Houghton, Mifflin, 1888. 171 p. GR103.J6

      702
    Love, Rose L., _ed._ A collection of folklore for children in
    elementary school and at home. New York, Vantage Press [1964] 83
    p. illus. GR105.L6
      Includes music.

      702a
    Owen, Mary A. Voodoo tales, as told among the Negroes of the
    Southwest; collected from original sources by Mary Alicia Owen;
    introduction by Charles Godfrey Leland; illustrated by Juliette
    A. Owen and Louis Wain. New York, G. P. Putnam, 1893. xv, 310 p.
    illus. GR103.O82
      Published in London the same year under title: _Old Rabbit,
      the Voodoo, and Other Sorcerers._

      703
    Parsons, Elsie W. C., _ed._ Folk-lore of the Sea Islands, South
    Carolina. Cambridge, Mass., American Folk-Lore Society, 1923.
    xxx, 219 p. map. (Memoirs of the American Folk-Lore Society, v.
    16) GR1.A5 v. XVI
      Contains music.
      "List of informants or writers of the tales": p. xxiii-xxvi.
      "Bibliography and abbreviations": p. xxvii-xxx.

      704
    Puckett, Newbell N. Folk beliefs of the southern Negro.
    Montclair, N.J., Patterson Smith, 1968 [c1926] xiv, 644 p.
    illus. (Patterson Smith reprint series in criminology, law
    enforcement, and social problems, publication no. 22) GR103.P8
    1968
      Bibliography: p. [583]-598.

      705
    Robb, Bernard. Welcum hinges, with a foreword by Alexander
    William Armour and an introduction by Thomas Lomax Hunter;
    gravure illustrations by Woodi Ishmael. New York, E. P. Dutton,
    1942. 215 p. illus., plates. GR103.R6
      Plantation folk tales and sayings, in the Negro dialect and
      idiom of "Uncle Woodson," at Gay Mont, the Robb estate in
      Caroline County, Va.

      706
    Sale, John B. The tree named John. With twenty-two silhouettes
    by Joseph Cranston Jones. Chapel Hill, University of North
    Carolina Press, 1929. 151 p. illus., plates. GR103.S3

      707
    Stoney, Samuel G., _and_ Gertrude M. Shelby. Black Genesis; a
    chronicle. Illustrations by Martha Bensley Bruère. New York,
    Macmillan, 1930. xxix, 192 p. illus. GR103.S8
      "Tales of the Gullah Negroes of the Carolina low country [told
      in the Gullah dialect]"—Foreword.
      "The family tree of Gullah folk speech and folk tales": p.
      ix-xxv.

      708
    Writers’ Program. _Georgia._ Drums and shadows; survival studies
    among the Georgia coastal Negroes [by the] Savannah unit,
    Georgia Writers’ Project, Work Projects Administration; foreword
    by Guy B. Johnson, photographs by Muriel and Malcolm Bell, Jr.
    Athens, University of Georgia Press, 1940. xx, 274 p. plates,
    ports. E185.93.G4W7
      Bibliography: p. 259-263.

      709
    Writers’ Program. _South Carolina._ South Carolina folk tales;
    stories of animals and supernatural beings, compiled by workers
    of the Writers’ Program of the Works Projects Administration in
    the State of South Carolina. Sponsored by the University of
    South Carolina. Columbia, S.C. [1941] 122 p. (Bulletin of the
    University of South Carolina. October 1941) GR110.S6W7
      "Bibliography for South Carolina folk tales": p. 118-122.

      710
    Writers’ Program. _Tennessee._ God bless the devil! Liars’ bench
    tales [by] James R. Aswell, Julia Willhoit, Jennette Edwards
    [and others] of the Tennessee Writers’ Project; with
    illustrations by Ann Kelley of the Tennessee Art Project. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1940. 254 p. illus.
    GR110.T4W7
      "Arranged and edited by James R. Aswell."—Preface.




15—HISTORY


      711
    Aplin, Norita, Shirley Seaton, _and_ Juanita Storey. The Negro
    American: his role, his quest. Clyde F. Varner, editor.
    Cleveland, Cleveland Public Schools, 1968. 246 p. map. E185.A56
      Bibliography: p. 220-238.

      712
    Aptheker, Herbert, _ed._ A documentary history of the Negro
    people in the United States. Preface by W. E. B. DuBois. New
    York, Citadel Press [1951] xvi, 942 p. E185.A58

      713
    Aptheker, Herbert. Essays in the history of the American Negro.
    New York, International Publishers [1964] 216 p. E185.A6 1964
      Bibliography: p. 211-216.

      714
    Aptheker, Herbert. To be free; studies in American Negro
    history. New York, International Publishers [1948] 256 p.
    E185.A63
      "Reference notes": p. 193-248.

      715
    Bennett, Lerone. Before the Mayflower; a history of the Negro in
    America, 1619-1966. 3d ed. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1966. 449
    p. illus., maps, ports. E185.B4 1966
      Bibliography: p. [428]-442.

      716
    Bennett, Lerone. Black Power, U.S.A., the human side of
    Reconstruction, 1867-1877. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1967. 401
    p. illus., ports. E185.2.B38
      Bibliography: p. 390-393.

      717
    Bittle, William E., _and_ Gilbert Geis. The longest way home;
    Chief Alfred C. Sam’s back-to-Africa movement. With the research
    assistance of Donald F. Parker. Detroit, Wayne State University
    Press, 1964. 229 p. E448.B615
      Includes bibliographical "Notes" (p. 213-221).

      718
    Bontemps, Arna W. Story of the Negro; illustrated by Raymond
    Lufkin. 2d ed., enl. New York, Knopf, 1955. 243 p. illus.
    E29.N3B6 1955

      719
    Boykin, James H. The Negro in North Carolina prior to 1861; an
    historical monograph. New York, Pageant Press [1958] 84 p.
    E185.93.N6B6
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 77-84).

      720
    Broderick, Francis L., _and_ August Meier, _eds._ Negro protest
    thought in the twentieth century. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill
    Co. [1966, c1965] xliii, 444 p. (The American heritage series)
    E185.B87

      721
    Broom, Leonard, _and_ Norval D. Glenn. Transformation of the
    Negro American. New York, Harper & Row [1965] 207 p. E185.6.B84
      Bibliography: p. 193-199.

      722
    Brown, Ina C. The story of the American Negro. Decorations by
    Aaron Douglas. Rev. ed. New York, Friendship Press [1950] 212 p.
    illus. E185.6.B85 1950
      Bibliography: p. 191-200.

      723
    Brown, William W. The rising son; or, The antecedents and
    advancement of the colored race. Boston, A. G. Brown, 1874. 552
    p. port. E185.B884
      "Representative men and women": p. 418-552.

      724
    Cain, Alfred E., _ed._ The winding road to freedom; a
    documentary survey of Negro experiences in America. Drawings:
    Horace Varela. Yonkers [N.Y.] Educational Heritage [1965] 384 p.
    illus., facsims., maps, ports. (Negro heritage library)
    [E185.C14] [TR: E184.6.C34]
      Bibliography: p. 374-377.

      725
    Caughey, John W., John H. Franklin, _and_ Ernest R. May. Land of
    the free; a history of the United States. Educational advisers:
    Richard M. Clowes [and] Alfred T. Clark, Jr. [Rev.] New York,
    Benziger Bros., 1966. 658 p. illus. (part col.), ports.
    E178.1.C36 1966
      Includes bibliographies.

      726
    Chambers, Lucille A., _ed._ America’s tenth man; a pictorial
    review of one-tenth of a nation, presenting the Negro
    contribution to American life today. Foreword by Henry Cabot
    Lodge, Jr. New York, Twayne Publishers [1957] 351 p. illus.
    E185.6.C46

      727
    Christian, Kathryn. The history of the Negro American; resource
    material. [Des Moines] Des Moines Public Schools, 1968. 43 p.
    E185.C52
      Bibliography: p. 43.

      728
    Cincinnati. _Public Schools._ The Negro in American life [by]
    Mabel Morsbach. New York, Harcourt, Brace & World [1967] 273 p.
    illus., maps, ports. E185.C56 1967
      Bibliography: p. 255-260.

      729
    Conrad, Earl. The invention of the Negro. New York, P. S.
    Eriksson [1967, c1966] 244 p.  E185.C74
      Bibliography: p. [232]-236.

      730
    Coulter, Ellis M. The Civil War and readjustment in Kentucky.
    Gloucester, Mass., P. Smith, 1966 [c1926] 468 p. maps. E509.C83
    1966 [TR: Coulter, E. Merton]
      Bibliography: p. 449-458.

      731
    Cromwell, John W. The Negro in American history; men and women
    eminent in the evolution of the American of African descent.
    Washington, American Negro Academy, 1914. 284 p. plates, ports.
    E185.C92
      Bibliography: p. 257-262.
      Reprint issued by Johnson Reprint Corp., 1969.

      732
    Davie, Maurice R. Negroes in American society. New York,
    Whittlesey House [1949] 542 p. maps. E185.6.D3
      Includes "References."

      733
    Delany, Martin R. The condition, elevation, emigration, and
    destiny of the colored people of the United States. New York,
    Arno Press, 1968. 214 p. (The American Negro, his history and
    literature) E185.D33 1968
      Reprint of the 1852 ed., with a new introduction.

      734
    Drotning, Phillip T. A guide to Negro history in America. Garden
    City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1968. xiv, 247 p. E185.D72

      735
    Eisenstadt, Murray. The Negro in American life. New York, Oxford
    Book Co. [1968] 380 p. (Oxford readings in social studies)
    E184.6.E35
      Includes bibliographies.

      736
    Eppse, Merl R. A guide to the study of the Negro in American
    history. Nashville, National Publication Co. [1943] 181 p.
    E185.E69 1943
      "First printing, June, 1937.... Third printing, revised and
      enlarged, September, 1943."
      Bibliography: p. 180-181.

      737
    Eppse, Merl R. The Negro, too, in American history. Nashville,
    National Publication Co., 1949. xxii, 644 p. illus., maps,
    ports. E185.E696 1949
      Bibliographical references included in introduction. "Reading
      material": p. 551-572.

      738
    Ferris, William H. The African abroad; or, His evolution in
    western civilization, tracing his development under Caucasian
    milieu. New Haven, Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Press, 1913. 2 v.
    illus., plates, ports. E185.F39

      739
    Fishel, Leslie H., _and_ Benjamin Quarles. The Negro American; a
    documentary history. Glenview, Ill., Scott, Foresman [1967] 536
    p. illus., facsims., maps, ports. E185.F5
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      740
    Foster, William Z. The Negro people in American history. New
    York, International Publishers [1954] 608 p. E185.F6
      Bibliography: p. 567-592.

      741
    Franklin, John H. The free Negro in North Carolina, 1790-1860.
    Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1943. 271 p.
    maps, tables. E185.93.N6F7
      Bibliography: p. [247]-258.

      742
    Franklin, John H. From slavery to freedom; a history of Negro
    Americans. 3d ed. [rev. and enl.] New York, Knopf, 1967. xxii,
    686, xliii p. illus., ports. E185.F825 1967
      "Bibliographical notes": p. [653]-686.

      743
    Franklin, John H. The militant South, 1800-1861. Cambridge,
    Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1956. 317 p. F213.F75
      Includes bibliography.

      744
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. The Negro in the United States. Rev.
    ed. New York, Macmillan [1957] xxxiii, 769 p. diagrs., maps,
    tables. E185.F833 1957
      Bibliography: p. 707-752.

      745
    Freidel, Frank B. The Negro and Puerto Rican in American
    history. Boston, Heath [1964] 27 p. illus., ports. E185.F85

      746
    Fuller, Thomas O. Pictorial history of the American Negro; a
    story of progress and development along social, political,
    economic, educational and spiritual lines. Memphis, Tenn.,
    Pictorial History, 1933. xxiii, 375 p. illus. (part col.), maps,
    ports. E185.F97
      Bibliography: p. 361-363.

      747
    Goldston, Robert C. The Negro revolution. New York, Macmillan
    [1968] 247 p. illus., ports. E185.G6

      748
    Greene, Lorenzo J. The Negro in colonial New England, 1620-1776.
    Port Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press [1966, c1942] 404 p.
    E445.N5G7 1966
      Reprint of a thesis, Columbia University, 1942.
      Bibliography: p. [361]-384.

      749
    Harlan, Louis R. The Negro in American history. Washington,
    American Historical Association [1965] 29 p. (Service Center for
    Teachers of History. Publication no. 61) E175.1.H3
      Bibliography: p. 26-29.

      750
    Hartshorn, William N., _ed._ An era of progress and promise,
    1863-1910; the religious, moral, and educational development of
    the American Negro since his emancipation. George W. Penniman,
    associate editor. Boston, Priscilla Pub. Co., 1910. 576 p.
    illus., ports. E185.6.H33 [TR: Hartshorn, W. N.]

      751
    Hesseltine, William B., _ed._ The tragic conflict; the Civil War
    and Reconstruction. Selected and edited with introduction and
    notes by William B. Hesseltine. New York, G. Braziller, 1962.
    528 p. (The American epochs series) E464.H4
      Bibliography: p. [527]-528.

      752
    Hodges, Carl G., _and_ Helene H. Levene, _comps._ Illinois Negro
    historymakers. Compiled with the assistance of Helen Horney,
    Julia Wanless and the Illinois State Historical Library staff.
    Chicago, Illinois Emancipation Centennial Commission, 1964. 91
    p. illus., ports. E185.93.I2H6

      753
    Hughes, Langston, _and_ Milton Meltzer. A pictorial history of
    the Negro in America. 3d rev. ed. New York, Crown Publishers
    [1968] 380 p. illus., maps, ports. E185.H83 1968
      "Third revision by C. Eric Lincoln and Milton Meltzer."
      Bibliography: p. 375.

      754
    Jordan, Winthrop D. White over black: American attitudes toward
    the Negro, 1550-1812. Chapel Hill, Published for the Institute
    of Early American History and Culture at Williamsburg, Va., by
    the University of North Carolina Press [1968] xx, 651 p. map.
    E185.J69
      Bibliography: p. 610-614. Bibliographical footnotes.

      755
    Katz, William L., _comp._ Eyewitness; the Negro in American
    history. New York, Pitman Pub. Corp. [1967] xix, 554 p. illus.,
    facsims., ports. E185.K28

      756
    Katz, William L. Teachers’ guide to American Negro history.
    Chicago, Quadrangle Books [1968] 192 p. illus., ports. E185.K285
      Includes bibliographies.

      757
    Lincoln, Charles Eric. The Negro pilgrimage in America. New
    York, Bantam Books [1967] 184 p. illus., facsims., ports.
    (Bantam pathfinder editions) E185.L47 [TR: Lincoln, C. Eric]

      758
    Little, Malcolm. Malcolm X on Afro-American history. [New York,
    Merit Publishers, 1967] 48 p. E185.L5
      "Speech ... from ... a public meeting on January 24, 1965."

      759
    Litwack, Leon F. North of slavery; the Negro in the free States,
    1790-1860. [Chicago] University of Chicago Press [1961] 318 p.
    E185.9.L5
      "Bibliographical essay": p. 280-303.

      760
    Logan, Rayford W., _and_ Irving S. Cohen. The American Negro;
    old world background and new world experience. With the
    editorial assistance of Howard R. Anderson. Boston, Houghton
    Mifflin [1967] 278 p. illus., maps, ports. (Houghton Mifflin
    social studies program; history) E185.L84
      Bibliography: p. 266-268.

      761
    Logan, Rayford W. The betrayal of the Negro, from Rutherford B.
    Hayes to Woodrow Wilson. New enl. ed. New York, Collier Books
    [1965] 447 p. E185.61.L64 1965
      "Originally published as _The Negro in American Life and
      Thought: the Nadir, 1877-1901_."
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 397-430).

      762
    Logan, Rayford W. The Negro in the United States, a brief
    history. Princeton, D. Van Nostrand [1957] 191 p. (An Anvil
    original, no. 19) E185.L85
      Includes bibliography.

      763
    McPherson, James M. The Negro’s Civil War; how American Negroes
    felt and acted during the war for the Union. New York, Pantheon
    Books [1965] 358 p. illus., ports. E540.N3M25
      "A note on sources": p. [343]-347.

      764
    McPherson, James M. The struggle for equality; abolitionists and
    the Negro in the Civil War and Reconstruction. Princeton,
    Princeton University Press, 1964. 474 p. illus. E449.M176
      "Bibliographical essay": p. 433-450.

      765
    Mazyck, Walter H. George Washington and the Negro. Washington,
    Associated Publishers [c1932] 180 p. E312.17.M38

      766
    Meier, August, _and_ Elliott M. Rudwick. From plantation to
    ghetto; an interpretive history of American Negroes. New York,
    Hill and Wang [1966] 280 p. map. E185.M4

      767
    Meier, August. Negro thought in America, 1880-1915; racial
    ideologies in the age of Booker T. Washington. Ann Arbor,
    University of Michigan Press [1963] 336 p. E185.6.M5
      "Bibliographical note": p. 280-282. Bibliographical references
      included in "Notes" (p. 283-316).

      768
    Meltzer, Milton. In their own words; a history of the American
    Negro. New York, Crowell [1964-67] 3 v. illus., facsims., ports.
    E185.M54
      Includes bibliographies.
      Contents.—[1.] 1619-1865.—[2.] 1865-1916.—[3.] 1916-1966.

      769
    Meltzer, Milton, _and_ August Meier. Time of trial, time of
    hope; the Negro in America, 1919-1941. Illustrated by Moneta
    Barnett. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1966. 120 p. illus.,
    ports. (Zenith books) E185.6.M54

      770
    The Negro in American history. [Mortimer J. Adler, general
    editor; Charles Van Doren, editor; George Ducas, executive
    editor] With an introduction by Saunders Redding. [Chicago]
    Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp. [1969] 3 v. illus.
    E185.N4
      Contents.—1. Black Americans, 1928-1968.—2. A taste of
      freedom, 1854-1927.—3. Slaves and masters, 1567-1854.

      771
    New York _(City) Board of Education_. The Negro in American
    history. Albany, Reprinted by the University of the State of New
    York, Bureau of Secondary Curriculum Development, 1965. 158 p.
    E185.N56
      Bibliography: p. 151-158.
      A curriculum guide which includes the African heritage.

      772
    Ottley, Roi. Black odyssey, the story of the Negro in America.
    New York, C. Scribner’s Sons, 1948. 340 p. E185.O85
      Bibliography: p. 315-322.

      773
    Pease, Frederick H. Found wanting. [Richmond, Va., 1968] 214 p.
    E185.P35

      774
    Pease, William H., _and_ Jane H. Pease. Black Utopia; Negro
    communal experiments in America. Madison, State Historical
    Society of Wisconsin, 1963. 204 p. E448.P36
      Bibliography: p. [191]-200.

      775
    Pennington, James W. C. Text book of the origin and history, &c.
    &c. of the colored people. Hartford, L. Skinner, Printer, 1841.
    96 p. E185.P41
      Earliest attempt to write the history of the Negro.

      776
    Pinkney, Alphonso. Black Americans. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
    Prentice-Hall [1959] xvii, 226 p. (Ethnic groups in American
    life series) E185.P5
      Includes bibliographies.

      777
    Powell, Adam Clayton. Marching blacks, an interpretive history
    of the rise of the black common man. New York, Dial Press, 1945.
    218 p. E185.6.P8
      Bibliography: p. 215-218.

      778
    Quarles, Benjamin. Black abolitionists. New York, Oxford
    University Press [1969] 310 p. E449.Q17
      "Note on bibliographical literature": p. 251-252.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 253-292).

      779
    Quarles, Benjamin. The Negro in the making of America. New York,
    Collier Books [1964] 288 p. (A Collier books original) E185.Q2
      "AS 534."
      Bibliography: p. 267-271.

      780
    Redding, Jay Saunders. The Negro. Washington, Potomac Books,
    1967. 101 p. illus. (The U.S.A. survey series) E185.R42 [TR:
    Redding, J. Saunders]
      Bibliography: p. 91-94.

      781
    Redding, Jay Saunders. On being Negro in America. Indianapolis,
    Bobbs-Merrill [1951] 156 p. E185.61.R3 [TR: Redding, J.
    Saunders]

      782
    Redding, Jay Saunders. They came in chains; Americans from
    Africa. Philadelphia, Lippincott [1950] 320 p. (The Peoples of
    America series) E185.R4 [TR: Redding, J. Saunders]
      Bibliography: p. 304-308.

      783
    Rogers, Joel A. Africa’s gift to America; the Afro-American in
    the making and saving of the United States. New York [1959] 254
    p. illus. E185.R74 [TR: Rogers, J. A.]

      784
    Rogers, Joel A. 100 amazing facts about the Negro, with complete
    proof; a short cut to the world history of the Negro. [24th rev.
    ed.] New York [1963] 58 p. illus., ports. HT1581.R62 1963
      Stamped on t.p.: Distributed by Sportshelf, New Rochelle, N.Y.

      785
    Rose, Arnold M., _ed._ Assuring freedom to the free; a century
    of emancipation in the USA. With an introduction by Lyndon B.
    Johnson. Detroit, Wayne State University Press, 1964. 306 p.
    E185.6.R74
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      786
    Sloan, Irving J. The American Negro; a chronology and fact book.
    2d ed. Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., Oceana Publications, 1968. 112 p.
    E185.S57 1968
      Bibliography: p. 71-[74].

      787
    Staudenraus, P. J. The African colonization movement, 1816-1865.
    New York, Columbia University Press, 1961. 323 p. E448.S78
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [252]-304).
      "Bibliographical essay": p. [305]-310.

      788
    Tannenbaum, Frank. Slave and citizen, the Negro in the Americas.
    New York, Knopf, 1947 [i.e. 1946] 128 p. double table. E29.N3T3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      789
    Thorpe, Earl E. The mind of the Negro; an intellectual history
    of Afro-Americans. Baton Rouge, La., Printed by Ortlieb Press
    [1961] 562 p. E185.82.T5
      Bibliographical references included in "Footnotes" (p.
      [496]-548).

      790
    Thorpe, Earl E. Negro historians in the United States. Baton
    Rouge, La., Fraternal Press [1958] 188 p. E175.T5
      Bibliography: p. 169-180.

      791
    Townsend, William H. Lincoln and the Bluegrass; slavery and
    civil war in Kentucky. [Lexington] University of Kentucky Press
    [1955] xiv, 392 p. illus., facsims., ports. E457.T78
      "Bibliographical notes": p. [359]-385.

      792
    U.S. _Congress. House. Committee on Education and Labor. Select
    Subcommittee on Labor._ To establish a National Commission on
    Negro History and Culture. Hearing, Ninetieth Congress, second
    session, on H.R. 12962. March 18, 1968. Washington, U.S. Govt.
    Print. Off., 1968. 127 p. illus. KF27.E345 1968b
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      793
    Van Deusen, John G. The black man in white America. Washington,
    Associated Publishers, 1938. 338 p. E185.6.V28
      Bibliography: p. 301-318.

      794
    Voegeli, V. Jacque. Free but not equal; the Midwest and the
    Negro during the Civil War. Chicago, University of Chicago Press
    [1967] 215 p. E185.9.V6
      Includes bibliographical references.

      795
    Wade, Richard C., _ed._ The Negro in American life; selected
    readings, edited and annotated by Richard C. Wade with the
    editorial assistance of Howard R. Anderson. Boston, Houghton
    Mifflin [1965] 182 p. illus., ports. (Life in America series)
    E185.W17
      Houghton Mifflin social studies program; history.

      796
    Wagandt, Charles L. The mighty revolution; Negro emancipation in
    Maryland, 1862-1864. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press [1964] 299
    p. illus., maps. E512.W2
      Bibliography: p. 269-284.

      797
    Washington, Booker T. The story of the Negro; the rise of the
    race from slavery. New York, P. Smith, 1940. 2 v. port.
    E185.W316 1940
      "Published, November, 1909. Reprinted 1940."
      Bibliographical footnotes.
      Contents.—v. 1. pt. 1. The Negro in Africa. pt. 2. The Negro
      as a slave.—v. 2. pt. 3. The Negro as a freeman.

      798
    Wesley, Charles H. Neglected history; essays in Negro history by
    a college president: Charles H. Wesley. Wilberforce, Ohio,
    Central State College Press, 1965. 200 p. E185.W46
      Bibliographical references included in "Historical notes" (p.
      164-187).

      799
    Wesley, Charles H., _ed._ The Negro in the Americas. Washington,
    Graduate School, Howard University [1940] 86 p. (Public lectures
    of the Division of the Social Sciences of the Graduate School,
    Howard University. v. 1) H31.H65 v. 1 [E29.N3W5]
      Contents.—The Negro in the British West Indies, by Eric
      Williams.—Notes on the Negro in the French West Indies, by
      L.T. Achille.—The Negro in Spanish America, by R. W.
      Logan.—The Negro in Brazil, by Richard Pattee.—The Haitian
      nation, by Dantes Bellegarde.—Race, migration and citizenship,
      by Ira De A. Reid.—The Negro in the United States and Canada,
      by C. H. Wesley.

      800
    Weyl, Nathaniel. The Negro in American civilization. Washington,
    Public Affairs Press [1960] 360 p. E185.W5
      "References": p. 322-351.

      801
    Williams, George W. History of the Negro race in America. New
    York, Bergman Publishers [1968] 2 v. port. E185.W7 1968 [TR:
    Williams, George Washington]
      Reprint of the 1883 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      802
    Woodson, Carter G. Free Negro heads of families in the United
    States in 1830, together with a brief treatment of the free
    Negro. Washington, Association for the Study of Negro Life and
    History [c1925] lviii, 296 p. E185.W887
      "Second of a series of documentary studies of the free Negro
      provided for by a grant ... from the Laura Spelman Rockefeller
      memorial in 1921."—Foreword.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      803
    Woodson, Carter G., _ed._ The mind of the Negro as reflected in
    letters written during the crisis, 1800-1860. New York, Russell
    & Russell [1969] xxxii, 672 p. E185.W8877 1969
      Reprint of the 1926 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      804
    Woodson, Carter G., _and_ Charles H. Wesley. The Negro in our
    history. 10th ed., further rev. and enl. Washington, Associated
    Publishers [1962] 833 p. illus. E185.W89 1962
      Bibliography: p. 775-803.

      805
    Woodson, Carter G. Negro makers of history. Washington,
    Associated Publishers [c1928] 362 p. illus., facsims., map,
    ports. E185.W895
      "An adaptation of [the author’s] _The Negro in Our History_ to
      the capacity of children in the elementary schools."—Preface.

      806
    Woodward, Comer Vann. The burden of southern history. Baton
    Rouge, Louisiana State University Press [1960] 205 p. F209.W6
    [TR: Woodward, C. Vann]
      Essays.

      807
    Wynes, Charles E., _ed._ The Negro in the South since 1865;
    selected essays in American Negro history. University,
    University of Alabama Press [1965] 253 p. (Southern historical
    publications, no. 10) E185.6.W97
      Bibliographical footnotes.




16—HISTORY—Slavery


      808
    Aptheker, Herbert. American Negro slave revolts. New York,
    International Publishers [1963] 409 p. E447.A67 1963
      Issued also as thesis (Ph.D.), Columbia University.
      Includes bibliography.

      809
    Aptheker, Herbert. Nat Turner’s slave rebellion. Together with
    the full text of the so-called "confessions" of Nat Turner made
    in prison in 1831. New York, Published for A.I.M.S. by
    Humanities Press [1966] 152 p. facsim. F232.S7A8
      Thesis (M.A.)—Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 111-125.

      810
    Aptheker, Herbert. One continual cry; David Walker’s Appeal to
    the colored citizens of the world, 1829-1830, its setting & its
    meaning, together with the full text of the third, and last,
    edition of the Appeal. New York, Published for A.I.M.S. by
    Humanities Press [1965] 150 p. E446.W2A6
      Bibliography: p. 149-150.

      811
    Bancroft, Frederic. Slave-trading in the Old South. Baltimore,
    J. H. Furst Co., 1931. 415 p. facsims., plates, table. E442.B21

      812
    Barnes, Gilbert H. The antislavery impulse, 1830-1844. With a
    new introduction by William G. McLoughlin. New York, Harcourt,
    Brace & World [1964] xxxv, 298 p. E449.B264 1964
      First published in 1933.
      Includes bibliographical references.

      813
    Brackett, Jeffrey R. The Negro in Maryland; a study of the
    institution of slavery. Baltimore, N. Murray, publication agent,
    Johns Hopkins University, 1889. 268 p. (Johns Hopkins University
    studies in historical and political science. Extra v. 6) H31.J62
    v. 6 E445.M3B7

      814
    Bruce, Kathleen. Virginia iron manufacture in the slave era. New
    York, A. M. Kelley, 1968. 482 p. illus., facsim., map, port.
    (Library of early American business and industry, 22)
    HD9517.V52B7 1968
      Reprints of economic classics.
      Reprint of the 1930 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 431-451.

      815
    Buckmaster, Henrietta, _pseud._ Let my people go; the story of
    the underground railroad and the growth of the abolition
    movement. New York, Harper [c1941] 398 p. map, plates, ports.
    E450.B89 1941
      London edition (V. Gollancz) has title: _Out of the House of
      Bondage_.
      Bibliography: p. 375-388.

      816
    Coffin, Levi. Reminiscences of Levi Coffin, the reputed
    president of the underground railroad. New York, A. M. Kelley,
    1968. 712 p. ports. (Reprints of economic classics) E450.C64
    1968
      Reprint of the 1876 ed.

      817
    Coleman, John Winston. Slavery times in Kentucky. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1940. xiv, 351 p. facsims.,
    plates, ports. E445.K5C7 [TR: Coleman, J. Winston]
      "Selected bibliography": p. 327-332.

      818
    Davis, David B. The problem of slavery in Western culture.
    Ithaca, N.Y., Cornell University Press [1966] xiv, 505 p.
    HT871.D3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      819
    Dillon, Merton L. Benjamin Lundy and the struggle for Negro
    freedom. Urbana, University of Illinois Press, 1966. 285 p.
    port. E446.D54
      Bibliography: p. [263]-267.

      820
    Donnan, Elizabeth, _ed._ Documents illustrative of the history
    of the slave trade to America. Washington, Carnegie Institution
    of Washington, 1930-35. 4 v. map, tables. (Carnegie Institution
    of Washington. Publication no. 409) E441.D68 AS32.A5 no. 409
      On verso of t.p.: Division of Historical Research, Carnegie
      Institution of Washington.
      Contents.—1. 1441-1700.—2. The eighteenth century.—3. New
      England and the middle colonies.—4. The border colonies and
      the southern colonies.

      821
    Donovan, Frank R. Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation; the story of the
    Emancipation Proclamation. New York, Dodd, Mead [1964] 146 p.
    illus., ports. E457.2.D68

      822
    Douglas, William O. Mr. Lincoln & the Negroes; the long road to
    equality. New York, Atheneum, 1963. 237 p. E457.2.D7
      Appendix (p. 117-232) contains texts of documents from 1776 to
      1963.

      823
    Drewry, William S. The Southampton Insurrection. Murfreesboro,
    N.C., Johnson Pub. Co., 1968. 240 p. illus., maps, ports. (A
    Virginia heritage book) F232.S7D7 1968
      Reprint of the 1900 ed., with biographical notes on the author
      and an index.
      Bibliography: p. 198-201.

      824
    Duberman, Martin B., _ed._ The antislavery vanguard: new essays
    on the abolitionists. Princeton, Princeton University Press,
    1965. 508 p. E449.D84
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      825
    DuBois, William E. B. The suppression of the African slave-trade
    to the United States of America, 1638-1870. New York, Longmans,
    Green, 1896. 335 p. diagrs. (Harvard historical studies, v. 1)
    E441.D81
      Appendixes.—A. A chronological conspectus of colonial and
      State legislation restricting the African slave-trade,
      1641-1787.—B. A chronological conspectus of State, national,
      and international legislation, 1788-1871.—C. Typical cases of
      vessels engaged in the American slave-trade, 1619-1864.—D.
      Bibliography (p. [299]-325).

      826
    Dumond, Dwight L. Antislavery origins of the Civil War in the
    United States. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Press, 1939.
    143 p. E449.D87
      "Commonwealth Foundation lectures, University College, London,
      second term, 1938-39."
      "List of additional readings": p. 131-134. "Selected
      bibliography of proslavery and antislavery publications": p.
      135-139.

      827
    Dumond, Dwight L. Antislavery; the crusade for freedom in
    America. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Press [1961] 422 p.
    illus., facsims., maps, ports. E441.D84
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [373]-413).

      828
    Elkins, Stanley M. Slavery; a problem in American institutional
    and intellectual life. 2d ed. Chicago, University of Chicago
    Press [1968] 263 p. E443.E4 1968
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      829
    Federal Writers’ Project. Lay my burden down; a folk history of
    slavery, edited by B. A. Botkin. Chicago, University of Chicago
    Press [1945] xxi, 285 p. plates. E444.F26
      "A selection and integration of excerpts and complete
      narratives from the Slave Narrative Collection of the Federal
      Writers’ Project."

      830
    Filler, Louis. The crusade against slavery, 1830-1860. New York,
    Harper [1960] 318 p. illus. (The New American nation series)
    E449.F49
      Bibliography: p. 281-303.

      831
    Fisk University, _Nashville. Social Science Institute._
    Unwritten history of slavery, autobiographical account of Negro
    ex-slaves. Nashville, 1945. 322 (i.e. 323) leaves. (_Its_ Social
    science source documents, no. 1) E444.F5
      "The interviews with these ex-slaves were conducted during
      1929 and 1930 by Mrs. Ophelia Settle Egypt."—Introductory
      note.

      832
    Fitzhugh, George. Cannibals all! or, Slaves without masters.
    Edited by C. Vann Woodward. Cambridge, Belknap Press of Harvard
    University Press, 1960. 264 p. (The John Harvard library)
    E449.F555 1960

      833
    Foner, Philip S. Business & slavery: the New York merchants &
    the irrepressible conflict. New York, Russell & Russell [1968]
    356 p. F128.44.F67 1968
      Reprint of the 1941 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 323-336.

      834
    Gara, Larry. The liberty line; the legend of the underground
    railroad. Lexington, University of Kentucky Press [1961] 201 p.
    E450.G22
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      835
    Genovese, Eugene D. The political economy of slavery; studies in
    the economy & society of the slave South. New York, Pantheon
    Books [1965] xiv, 304 p. E442.G45
      Includes bibliographies.

      836
    Halasz, Nicholas. The rattling chains; slave unrest and revolt
    in the antebellum South. New York, D. McKay Co. [1966] 274 p.
    E447.H3
      Bibliography: p. 257-266.

      837
    Helper, Hinton R. The impending crisis of the South; how to meet
    it. Edited by George M. Fredrickson. Cambridge, Mass., Belknap
    Press of Harvard University Press, 1968. lxiii, 429 p. (The John
    Harvard library) E449.H483 1968
      Reprint of the 1857 ed. with a new introduction by the editor.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      838
    Hollander, Barnett. Slavery in America. New York, Barnes & Noble
    [1963] 212 p. DLC-LL [TR: London, Bowes & Bowes [c1962]
    KF4545.S5H59]

      839
    Jenkins, William S. Pro-slavery thought in the Old South.
    Gloucester, Mass., P. Smith, 1960 [c1935] 381 p. E441.J46 1960
      Bibliography: p. 309-358.

      839a
    Jernegan, Marcus W. Laboring and dependent classes in colonial
    America, 1607-1783; studies of the economic, educational, and
    social significance of slaves, servants, apprentices, and poor
    folk. Chicago, University of Chicago Press [c1931] 256 p.
    (Social service monographs, no. 17) E188.J57
      "Bibliographical note": p. 211-212. "Notes": p. 213-248.

      840
    Johnson, Frank R. The Nat Turner slave insurrection.
    Murfreesboro, N.C., Johnson Pub. Co. [1966] 248 p. illus., maps.
    F232.S7J6 [TR: Johnson, F. Roy]
      "The confessions of Nat Turner": p. 225-248.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 187-210).

      841
    Kemble, Frances A. Journal of a residence on a Georgian
    plantation in 1838-1839. Edited, with an introduction, by John
    A. Scott. New York, Knopf, 1961. lxx, 415 p. facsim., maps,
    port. F290.K332 1961 [TR: Kemble, Fanny]
      "Bibliographical notes": p. 406-415. Bibliographical
      footnotes.

      842
    Korn, Bertram W. Jews and Negro slavery in the Old South,
    1789-1865. Elkins Park, Pa., Reform Congregation Keneseth
    Israel, 1961. 68 p. illus. E441.K65
      "Delivered as the presidential address at the fifty-ninth
      annual meeting of the American Jewish Historical Society,
      February 18, 1961, and reprinted from the March, 1961, issue
      of its quarterly _Publication_."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      843
    Lader, Lawrence. The bold Brahmins; New England’s war against
    slavery, 1831-1863. New York, Dutton, 1961. 318 p. illus.
    E449.L12
      Bibliography: p. 293-312.

      844
    Latham, Frank B. The Dred Scott decision, March 6, 1857; slavery
    and the Supreme Court’s self-inflicted wound. New York, F. Watts
    [1968] 54 p. illus., facsims., ports. (A Focus book) KF4545.S5L3
      Bibliography, p. 52.

      845
    Lester, Julius, _comp._ To be a slave. Illustrated by Tom
    Feelings. New York, Dial Press [1968] 160 p. illus. E444.L47
      A compilation, selected from various sources and arranged
      chronologically, of the reminiscences of slaves and ex-slaves
      about their experiences from the leaving of Africa through the
      Civil War and into the early twentieth century.
      Bibliography: p. 159-160.

      846
    Lloyd, Arthur Y. The slavery controversy, 1831-1860. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1939. 337 p. E449.L76
      "Selected bibliography": p. [287]-322.

      847
    Lofton, John. Insurrection in South Carolina: the turbulent
    world of Denmark Vesey. Yellow Springs, Ohio, Antioch Press
    [1964] 294 p. maps. F279.C4L6
      Bibliography: p. [274]-286.

      848
    Loguen, Jermain W. The Rev. J. W. Loguen as a slave and as a
    freeman. A narrative of real life. Syracuse, N.Y., J. G. K.
    Truair, Printers, 1859. 454 p. port. E444.L83
      Written in the third person, but apparently the work of
      Loguen.
      "Testimony of Rev. E. P. Rogers," including a poem "Loguen’s
      Position": p. 445-450.

      849
    McKitrick, Eric L., _ed._ Slavery defended: the views of the Old
    South. Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1963] 180 p. (A
    Spectrum book) E449.M16
      "Suggestions for further reading, and acknowledgments": p.
      179-180.

      850
    McManus, Edgar J. A history of Negro slavery in New York.
    Foreword by Richard B. Morris. [Syracuse, N.Y.] Syracuse
    University Press [1966] 219 p. E445.N56M3
      "Bibliographical note": p. 201-212.

      851
    May, Samuel J. Some recollections of our antislavery conflict.
    New York, Arno Press, 1968. 408 p. (The American Negro, his
    history and literature) E449.M461 1968
      Reprint of the 1869 ed., with a new introduction.

      852
    Moore, George H. Notes on the history of slavery in
    Massachusetts. New York, Negro Universities Press [1968] 256 p.
    E445.M4M8 1968
      Reprint of the 1866 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      853
    Olmsted, Frederick L. Journey through Texas; a saddle-trip on
    the southwestern frontier. Edited by James Howard. Austin, Tex.,
    Von Boeckmann-Jones Press [distributed by University Cooperative
    Bookstore] 1962. 299 p. illus. F391.O512 1962
      Bibliography: p. 291-295.

      854
    Owens, William A. Slave mutiny; the revolt on the schooner
    Amistad. New York, J. Day Co. [1953] 312 p. illus. E447.O9

      855
    Phillips, Ulrich B. American Negro slavery; a survey of the
    supply, employment and control of Negro labor as determined by
    the plantation regime. New York, Appleton, 1918. 529 p.
    E441.P549
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      856
    Phillips, Ulrich B. Life and labor in the Old South. Boston,
    Little, Brown [1963] 375 p. illus. F209.P563
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      857
    Pickard, Kate E. R. The kidnapped and the ransomed. [New York]
    Negro Publication Society of America, 1941. 315 p. ([Negro
    Publication Society of America. Publications] Series 1, History,
    no. 1) E444.S855
      "The first edition ... appeared in 1856."—Editor’s note.
      "Appendix. Seth Conklin [by W. H. Furness]": p. 293-315.

      858
    Postell, William D. The health of slaves on southern
    plantations. Baton Rouge, Louisiana State University Press
    [1951] 231 p. illus. (Louisiana State University studies. Social
    science series, no. 1) E443.P78
      Bibliography: p. 214-226.

      859
    Rozwenc, Edwin C., _ed._ Slavery as a cause of the Civil War.
    Rev. ed. Boston, Heath [1963] 120 p. (Problems in American
    civilization; readings selected by the Dept. of American
    Studies, Amherst College) E459.R6 1963
      "Suggestions for additional reading": p. 103-104.

      860
    Ruchames, Louis, _ed._ The abolitionists; a collection of their
    writings. New York, Putnam [1963] 259 p. E449.R88

      861
    Sanborn, Franklin B. Recollections of seventy years. Boston, R.
    G. Badger, 1909. Detroit, Gale Research Co., 1967. 2 v. (607 p.)
    illus., facsims., ports. (The Gale library of lives and letters:
    American writers series) E449.S21 1967
      Contents.—v. 1. Political life.—v. 2. Literary life.

      862
    Scarborough, Ruth. The opposition to slavery in Georgia prior to
    1860. New York, Negro Universities Press [1968, c1933] 257 p.
    E445.G3S25 1968
      Bibliography: p. 252-257.

      863
    Sellers, James B. Slavery in Alabama. University, University of
    Alabama Press, 1950. 426 p. illus., ports. E445.A3S4
      Bibliography: p. [399]-409.

      864
    Sherrard, Owen A. Freedom from fear; the slave and his
    emancipation. New York, St. Martin’s Press [1961, c1959] 200 p.
    HT1162.S45 1961
      Bibliography: p. [191]-193.

      865
    Shugg, Roger W. Origins of class struggle in Louisiana; a social
    history of white farmers and laborers during slavery and after,
    1840-1875. [Baton Rouge] Louisiana State University Press [1968]
    xiv, 372 p. (Louisiana paperbacks, L-36) F374.S58 1968
      Bibliography: p. 332-363.

      866
    Siebert, Wilbur H. The underground railroad from slavery to
    freedom. With an introduction by Albert Bushnell Hart. New York,
    Russell & Russell [1967] xxv, 478 p. illus., facsim., maps (part
    fold.), ports. E450.S57 1967
      Reprint of the 1898 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 380-402.

      867
    Spears, John R. The American slave trade; an account of its
    origin, growth, and suppression. Abridged ed. New York,
    Ballantine Books [1960] 158 p. illus. (Ballantine books, 392K)
    E441.S736

      868
    Stampp, Kenneth M. The peculiar institution: slavery in the
    ante-bellum South. New York, Knopf, 1956. 435 p. E441.S8
      "Manuscripts consulted, and their locations": p. 431-[436].
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      869
    Starkey, Marion L. Striving to make it my home; the story of
    Americans from Africa. New York, Norton [1964] 256 p. E441.S82
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 251-256).

      870
    Starling, Marion W. The slave narrative; its place in American
    literary history. New York, New York University, 1949. 19 p.
    E444.S8
      Abridgement of thesis—New York University.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      871
    Stephenson, Clarence D. The impact of the slavery issue on
    Indiana County. Marion Center, Pa., Mahoning Mimeograph &
    Pamphlet Service [1964] 155 p. illus., facsims., ports. (Indiana
    County historical series, no. 2) F157.I3S78
      Bibliography: p. 151-155.

      872
    Still, William. The underground rail road. A record of facts,
    authentic narratives, letters &c., narrating the hardships,
    hair-breadth escapes and death struggles of the slaves in their
    efforts for freedom, as related by themselves and others, or
    witnessed by the author; together with sketches of some of the
    largest stockholders, and most liberal aiders and advisers, of
    the road. Philadelphia, Porter & Coates, 1872. 780 p. illus.,
    plates, ports. E450.S85
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1968.

      873
    Strother, Horatio T. The underground railroad in Connecticut.
    Middletown, Conn., Wesleyan University Press [1962] 262 p.
    illus. E450.S93

      874
    The Suppressed book about slavery. New York, Arno Press, 1968.
    432 p. illus. (The American Negro; his history and literature)
    E449.S9592 1968
      Reprint of the 1864 ed.

      875
    Sydnor, Charles S. Slavery in Mississippi. Gloucester, Mass., P.
    Smith, 1965 [c1933] 270 p. map. E445.M6S92 1965
      At head of title: The American Historical Association.
      Bibliography: p. 255-262.

      876
    Taylor, Joe G. Negro slavery in Louisiana. [Baton Rouge]
    Louisiana Historical Association [1963] 260 p. E445.L8T3
      Bibliography: p. 239-252.

      877
    Trefousse, Hans L. The radical Republicans; Lincoln’s vanguard
    for racial justice. New York, Knopf, 1969 [c1968] xiv, 492, xvii
    p. illus., ports. E449.T79
      Bibliography: p. 471-492.

      877a
    Turner, Edward R. The Negro in Pennsylvania,
    slavery—servitude—freedom, 1639-1861. Washington, American
    Historical Association, 1911. 314 p. (Prize essays of the
    American Historical Association, 1910) E185.93.P41T9
      To this essay was awarded the Justin Winsor Prize in American
      History for 1910.
      Bibliography: p. 255-294.

      878
    Turner, Nat. The confessions of Nat Turner, the leader of the
    late insurrection in Southampton, Va., as fully and voluntarily
    made to Thomas R. Gray, in the prison where he was confined.
    Richmond, T. R. Gray, 1832. 24 p. F232.S7T9

      879
    Wade, Richard C. Slavery in the cities; the South, 1820-1860.
    New York, Oxford University Press, 1964. 340 p. E443.W3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [287]-323).

      880
    Walker, David. David Walker’s appeal, in four articles, together
    with a preamble, to the coloured citizens of the world, but in
    particular, and very expressly, to those of the United States of
    America. Edited and with an introduction by Charles M. Wiltse.
    New York, Hill and Wang [1965] 78 p. (American century series,
    AC73) E446.W178
      Reprint of the 1929 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      881
    Wish, Harvey, _ed._ Slavery in the South; first-hand accounts of
    the ante-bellum American Southland from northern & southern
    whites, Negroes, & foreign observers. New York, Farrar, Straus
    [1964] xxi, 290 p. facsim. (Materials of American history
    series) E441.W78
      Bibliography: p. [xxiii].

      882
    Zilversmit, Arthur. First emancipation; the abolition of slavery
    in the North. Chicago, University of Chicago Press [1967] 262 p.
    E446.Z5
      "Bibliography essay": p. [245]-250.




17—HISTORY—Reconstruction


      883
    Abbott, Martin. The Freedmen’s Bureau in South Carolina,
    1865-1872. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press
    [1967] 162 p. F274.A23
      Bibliography: p. [145]-158.

      884
    Allen, James S. Reconstruction; the battle for democracy
    (1865-1876). New York, International Publishers [c1937] 256 p.
    illus. [A history of the American people] E668.A45
      "Selected bibliography": p. 249-252.

      884a
    Andrews, Sidney. The South since the war, as shown by fourteen
    weeks of travel and observation in Georgia and the Carolinas.
    Boston, Ticknor and Fields, 1866. 400 p. F216.A56

      885
    Bentley, George R. A history of the Freedmen’s Bureau.
    Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, 1955. 298 p. E185.2.B4
      Thesis—University of Wisconsin.
      Bibliography: p. 266-279.

      886
    Botume, Elizabeth H. First days amongst the contrabands. New
    York, Arno Press, 1968. 286 p. (The American Negro, his history
    and literature) E185.93.S7B7 1968
      Reprint of the 1893 ed., with a new introduction.

      887
    Brock, William R. An American crisis: Congress and
    Reconstruction, 1865-1867. [New York] St. Martin’s Press [1963]
    312 p. E668.B85
      "Bibliographical note": p. 305.

      888
    Bruce, Philip A. The plantation Negro as a freeman; observations
    on his character, condition, and prospects in Virginia. New
    York, G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1889. 262 p. (Questions of the day,
    no. 57) E185.6.B88

      889
    Buckmaster, Henrietta, _pseud._ Freedom bound. New York,
    Macmillan [1965] 185 p. E185.2.B9
      Bibliography: p. 183-184.

      890
    Carter, Hodding. The angry scar; the story of Reconstruction.
    Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1959. 425 p. (Mainstream of
    America series) E668.C3
      Bibliography: p. [411]-414.

      891
    Coulter, Ellis M. The South during Reconstruction, 1865-1877.
    [Baton Rouge] Louisiana State University Press, 1947. 426 p.
    illus., maps (1 fold.) (A History of the South, v. 8) F216.C6
    [TR: Coulter, E. Merton]
      "Critical essay on authorities": p. 392-407.

      892
    Craven, Avery O. Reconstruction: the ending of the Civil War.
    New York, Holt, Rinehart and Winston [1969] 330 p. E668.C9
      Bibliography: p. 308-315.

      893
    Crowe, Charles R., _ed._ The age of Civil War and
    Reconstruction, 1830-1900; a book of interpretative essays.
    Homewood, Ill., Dorsey Press, 1966. 479 p. (The Dorsey series in
    American history) F209.C7
      Includes bibliographies.

      894
    Current, Richard N., _ed._ Reconstruction, 1865-1877. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1965] 183 p. (A Spectrum book,
    S-114: Eyewitness accounts of American history) E668.C98

      895
    Dennett, John R. The South as it is: 1865-1866. Edited and with
    an introduction by Henry M. Christman. New York, Viking Press
    [1965] 370 p. F216.D4 1965
      A series of articles written for _The Nation_, July 1865-Apr.
      1866.

      896
    Donald, Henderson H. The Negro freedman; life conditions of the
    American Negro in the early years after emancipation. New York,
    H. Schuman, 1952. 270 p. E185.2.D65
      Bibliography: p. [255]-258.

      897
    Drisko, Carol F., _and_ Edgar A. Toppin. The unfinished march;
    the Negro in the United States, Reconstruction to World War I.
    Illustrated by Tracy Sugarman. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday,
    1967. 118 p. col. illus. (Zenith books) E185.6.D7

      898
    DuBois, William E. B. Black Reconstruction in America; an essay
    toward a history of the part which black folk played in the
    attempt to reconstruct democracy in America, 1860-1880. New
    York, Russell & Russell [1966, c1935] 746 p. E668.D83 1966b
      Bibliography: p. 731-737.

      899
    Dunning, William A. Reconstruction, political and economic,
    1865-1877. New York, Harper, 1907. xvi, 378 p. maps, port. (The
    American nation; a history, v. 22) E178.A54 v. 22
      "Critical essay on authorities": p. [342]-357.

      900
    Evans, William McKee. Ballots and fence rails; Reconstruction on
    the lower Cape Fear. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina
    Press [1967] 314 p. maps. F262.C2E9 1967
      Bibliography: p. [291]-301.

      901
    Ficklen, John R. History of Reconstruction in Louisiana, through
    1868. Gloucester, Mass., P. Smith, 1966 [c1910] 234 p. (Johns
    Hopkins University. Studies in historical and political science,
    ser. 28, no. 1) H31.J6 ser. 28, no. 1 1966
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      902
    Fleming, Walter L., _ed._ Documentary history of Reconstruction,
    political, military, social, religious, educational &
    industrial, 1865 to the present time. Cleveland, A. H. Clark
    Co., 1906-7. 2 v. facsims., plates, port. E668.F58

      903
    Fleming, Walter L., _ed._ Documents relating to Reconstruction.
    Morgantown, W. Va., 1904. [269] p. E668.F59
      Contents.—no. 1. The constitution and the ritual of the
      Knights of the White Camelia.—no. 2. Revised and amended
      prescript of Ku Klux Klan.—no. 3. Union League documents.—no.
      4-5. Public frauds in South Carolina. The constitution of the
      Council of Safety. Local Ku Klux constitution. The ’76
      Association.—no. 6-7. Freedmen’s Bureau documents. The
      Freedmen’s Savings Bank.—no. 8. Laws relating to freedmen,
      1865-6.

      904
    Franklin, John H. The Emancipation Proclamation. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1963. 181 p. illus. E453.F8 [TR: Franklin, John
    Hope]
      "Sources": p. 157-162. Bibliographical references included in
      "Notes" (p. [163]-173).

      905
    Franklin, John H. Reconstruction: after the Civil War. [Chicago]
    University of Chicago Press [1961] 258 p. illus. (The Chicago
    history of American civilization) E668.F7 [TR: Franklin, John
    Hope]
      "Suggested reading": p. 232-242.

      906
    Henry, Robert S. The story of Reconstruction. Indianapolis,
    Bobbs-Merrill Co. [c1938] 633 p. map (on lining papers), plates.
    E668.H516
      Bibliography included in "Acknowledgments."

      907
    Hyman, Harold M., _ed._ New frontiers of the American
    Reconstruction. Urbana, University of Illinois Press, 1966. 156
    p. E668.H98
      Papers presented at a conference held at the University of
      Illinois in April 1965.
      Includes bibliographical footnotes.

      908
    Hyman, Harold M., _comp._ The radical Republicans and
    Reconstruction, 1861-1870. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill [1967]
    lxxxvi, 538 p. (The American heritage series, 47) E668.H985
      Bibliography: lxix-lxxxvi.

      909
    Lynch, John R. The facts of Reconstruction. New York, Neale Pub.
    Co., 1913. 325 p. ports. E668.L98
      "The state of Mississippi is made the pivotal one in the
      presentation of the facts and historical points touched upon
      in this work."—Preface.

      910
    McCarthy, Charles H. Lincoln’s plan of reconstruction. New York,
    McClure, Phillips, 1901. xxiv, 504 p. E456.M23

      911
    McKitrick, Eric L. Andrew Johnson and Reconstruction. [Chicago]
    University of Chicago Press [1960] 533 p. E668.M156
      "Selected bibliography, with notes": p. 511-521.

      912
    McWhiney, Grady, _ed._ Reconstruction and the freedmen. Chicago,
    Rand McNally [1963] 54 p. (The Berkeley series in American
    history) E185.2.M3
      Bibliography: p. 54.

      913
    Nunn, William C. Texas under the carpetbaggers. Austin,
    University of Texas Press [1962] 304 p. illus. F391.N965
      Bibliography: p. 263-269.

      914
    Pollard, Edward A. The lost cause regained. New York, G. W.
    Carleton, 1868. 214 p. E666.P77

      915
    Randall, James G. The Civil War and Reconstruction. Boston, D.
    C. Heath [c1937] xvii, 959 p. illus., diagrs., facsims., maps,
    ports. E468.R26 [TR: Randall, James Garfield]
      "Bibliographical note": p. 881-883. Bibliography: p. 885-924.

      916
    Richardson, Joe M. The Negro in the reconstruction of Florida,
    1865-1877. Tallahassee, Florida State University, 1965. 255 p.
    (Florida State University studies, no. 46) AS36.F57 no. 46
      Bibliography: p. 241-249.

      917
    Shenton, James P., _ed._ The Reconstruction; a documentary
    history of the South after the war: 1865-1877. New York, Putnam
    [1963] 314 p. E668.S543

      918
    Sinclair, William A. The aftermath of slavery; a study of the
    condition and environment of the American Negro. With an
    introduction by Thomas Wentworth Higginson. Boston, Small,
    Maynard, 1905. 358 p. E185.6.S61

      919
    Skaggs, William H. The southern oligarchy; an appeal in behalf
    of the silent masses of our country against the despotic rule of
    the few. New York, Devin-Adair Co., 1924. 472 p. F209.S62

      920
    Stampp, Kenneth M. The era of Reconstruction, 1865-1877. New
    York, Knopf, 1965. 228 p. E668.S79
      "Bibliographical note": p. 217-[229].

      921
    Sterling, Dorothy. Forever free, the story of the Emancipation
    Proclamation. Illustrated by Ernest Crichlow. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday [1963] 208 p. illus. E453.S83 1963
      Bibliographical references included in "Note to the reader"
      (p. [199]-204).

      922
    Straker, David Augustus. The new South investigated. Detroit,
    Ferguson Print. Co., 1888. 230 p. port. F215.S89 [TR: Straker,
    D. Augustus]

      923
    Swint, Henry L., _ed._ Dear ones at home; letters from
    contraband camps. Nashville, Vanderbilt University Press, 1966.
    274 p. map. E185.2.S98
      Letters written 1861-1870, chiefly by Lucy and Sarah Chase.
      Bibliography: p. 259-267.

      924
    Taylor, Alrutheus A. The Negro in South Carolina during the
    Reconstruction. Washington, Association for the Study of Negro
    Life and History [c1924] 341 p. E185.93.S7T3
      Bibliography: p. 314-322.

      925
    Taylor, Alrutheus A. The Negro in the reconstruction of
    Virginia. Washington, Association for the Study of Negro Life
    and History [c1926] 300 p. E185.93.V8T3
      Bibliography: p. 287-292.

      926
    Wallace, John. Carpet-bag rule in Florida; the inside workings
    of the reconstruction of civil government in Florida after the
    close of the Civil War. A facsimile reproduction of the 1888
    ed., with introduction & notes by Allan Nevins. Gainesville,
    University of Florida Press, 1964. xxxii, 444 p. col. coat of
    arms, ports. (Quadricentennial edition of the Floridiana
    facsimile & reprint series) F316.W19 1888a
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. xxv-xxvi).

      927
    Whyte, James H. The uncivil war; Washington during the
    Reconstruction, 1865-1878. New York, Twayne Publishers [1958]
    316 p. illus. F198.W45
      Bibliography: p. 296-305.

      928
    Williams, George W. 1862—emancipation day—1884. The Negro as a
    political problem. Oration ... at the Asbury Church, Washington,
    D.C., April 16, 1884. Boston, A. Mudge, Printers, 1884. 40 p.
    E185.6.W72

      929
    Williamson, Joel. After slavery; the Negro in South Carolina
    during the Reconstruction, 1861-1877. Chapel Hill, University of
    North Carolina Press [1965] 442 p. E185.93.S7W73
      Bibliography: p. [419]-430.

      930
    Wilson, Joseph T. Emancipation: its course and progress; from
    1481 B.C. to A.D. 1875, with a review of President Lincoln’s
    proclamations, the XIII amendment, and the progress of the freed
    people since emancipation; with a history of the emancipation
    monument. Hampton, Va., Normal School Steam Power Press Print,
    1882. 242 p. port. E453.W77
      Revised and enlarged from a pamphlet published in 1881.




18—LEGAL STATUS


      931
    Avins, Alfred, _comp._ The Reconstruction amendments’ debates:
    the legislative history and contemporary debates in Congress on
    the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments. Richmond, Virginia
    Commission on Constitutional Government, 1967. xxxii, 764 p.
    KF4756.A29A9
      Selections from the _Congressional Globe_ and the
      _Congressional Record_, covering the years 1849 to 1875.
      Bibliography: p. i-ii.

      932
    Berger, Morroe. Equality by statute; the revolution in civil
    rights. Rev. ed. Garden City, N. Y., Doubleday, 1967. 253 p.
    KF4757.B4 1967
      Bibliography: p. [230]-236.

      933
    Catterall, Helen H. T., _ed._ Judicial cases concerning American
    slavery and the Negro. New York, Octagon Books, 1968. 5 v.
    KF4545.S5C3 1968
      Reprint of the 1926 ed.
      Vols. 4-5, "with additions by James J. Hayden."
      Bibliographical footnotes.
      Contents.—v. 1. Cases from the courts of England, Virginia,
      West Virginia, and Kentucky.—v. 2. Cases from the courts of
      North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.—v. 3. Cases
      from the courts of Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and
      Louisiana.—v. 4. Cases from the courts of New England, the
      middle States, and the District of Columbia.—v. 5. Cases from
      the courts of States north of the Ohio and west of the
      Mississippi Rivers, Canada and Jamaica.

      934
    Collins, Charles W. The Fourteenth amendment and the States: a
    study of the operation of the restraint clauses of section one
    of the Fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United
    States. Boston, Little, Brown, 1912. xxi, 220 p. diagrs.,
    tables. [JK169 14th 1912] [TR: KF4558 14th.C64 1912]
      Some of these studies "have within recent months appeared, in
      substantially their present form" in the _American Law
      Review_, the _Yale Law Journal_, the _Columbia Law Review_,
      and the _South Atlantic Quarterly_.—Preface.

      935
    Conference on Discrimination and the Law, _University of
    Chicago, 1963_. Discrimination and the law; [papers] edited by
    Vern Countryman. Chicago, University of Chicago Press [1965]
    xiv, 170 p. DLC-LL [TR: KF4755.A75C6 1963]
      Sponsored by the University of Chicago Law School and others.
      Bibliography: p. 145-152.

      936
    Georgia. _Laws, statutes, etc._ Compilation of Georgia laws and
    opinions of the attorney general relating to segregation of the
    races. Compiled and edited by State Law Dept. [Atlanta, 1956] 93
    p. [DLC-LL] [TR: LAW]

      937
    Greenberg, Jack. Race relations and American law. New York,
    Columbia University Press, 1959. 481 p. [DLC-LL] [TR:
    KF4757.G7]
      Bibliography: p. [421]-437. Bibliographical footnotes.

      938
    Higbee, Jay A. Development and administration of the New York
    State law against discrimination. University, University of
    Alabama Press [1967, c1966] xxii, 396 p. KFN5697.H5
      Bibliography: p. [337]-354.

      939
    Mangum, Charles S. The legal status of the Negro. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1940. 436 p. [DLC-LL
    E185.6.M33] [TR: KF4757.M3]
      "Selected bibliography": p. [425]-426.

      940
    Miller, Loren. The petitioners; the story of the Supreme Court
    of the United States and the Negro. New York, Pantheon Books
    [1966] xv, 461 p. [DLC-LL] [TR: KF4757.M5]
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [435]-455).

      941
    Murray, Pauli, _ed._ States’ laws on race and color, and
    appendices containing international documents, Federal laws and
    regulations, local ordinances and charts. [Cincinnati, Woman’s
    Division of Christian Service, Board of Missions and Church
    Extension, Methodist Church] 1950 [i.e. 1951] 746 p. forms.
    [DLC-LL] [TR: KF4757.S73 1950]
      [TR: Accompanied by] —— —— 1955 supplement, compiled and
      edited by Verge Lake and Pauli Murray. Cincinnati, Woman’s
      Division of Christian Service, Board of Missions of the
      Methodist Church, 1955. 256 p. [DLC-LL]

      942
    Snethen, Worthington G., _comp_. The black code of the District
    of Columbia, in force September 1st, 1848. New York, Published
    for the A. & F. Anti-slavery Society, by W. Harned, 1848. 61 p.
    [DLC-LL] [TR: KFD1611.5.A34A3 1848]
        Contents.—The District of Columbia.—Ordinances of the
        corporation of Washington.—Ordinances of the corporation of
        Georgetown.

      943
    Stephenson, Gilbert T. Race distinctions in American law. New
    York, D. Appleton, 1910. xiv, 388 p. [JK1781.S8] [TR: KF4757.S74
    1910]

      944
    Styles, Fitzhugh L. Negroes and the law in the race’s battle for
    liberty, equality and justice under the Constitution of the
    United States; with causes celebres. Boston, Christopher Pub.
    House [c1937] 320 p. port. DLC-LL E185.61.S92
      The manuscript of the author’s address before the National Bar
      Association at Baltimore, August 1934, on the battle of the
      Negro at the bar of justice, is the basis of this book.
      Bibliography: p. 320.

      945
    TenBroek, Jacobus. Equal under law. New, enl. ed. New York,
    Collier Books [1965] 352 p. E449.T4 1965
      First ed. published in 1951 under title: _The Antislavery
      Origins of the Fourteenth Amendment._
      "Source materials": p. 344-347.

      946
    U.S. Supreme Court. The Supreme Court on racial discrimination.
    Edited by Joseph Tussman. New York, Oxford University Press,
    1963. 393 p. [DLC-LL] [TR: LAW]

      947
    Wilson, Theodore B. The black codes of the South. University,
    University of Alabama Press [1965] 177 p. (Southern historical
    publications, no. 6) [DLC-LL] [TR: KF4757.W54]
      Bibliography: p. 167-174.




19—LITERATURE—History and Criticism


      948
    Abramson, Doris E. Negro playwrights in the American theatre,
    1925-1959. New York, Columbia University Press, 1969. 335 p.
    PS351.A2
      Bibliography: p. [307]-317.

      949
    Bone, Robert A. The Negro novel in America. [Rev. ed.] New
    Haven, Yale University Press [1965] 289 p. PS153.N5B6 1965
      Bibliography: p. 255-270.

      950
    Brawley, Benjamin G., _ed._ Early Negro American writers;
    selections with biographical and critical introductions. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1935. 305 p.
    PS508.N3B7

      951
    Brawley, Benjamin G. The Negro genius; a new appraisal of the
    achievement of the American Negro in literature and the fine
    arts. New York, Biblo and Tannen, 1966 [c1937] 366 p.
    E185.82.B816 1966
      Bibliography: p. 331-350.

      952
    Brawley, Benjamin G. The Negro in literature and art in the
    United States. 3d ed. New York, Duffield, 1929. 231 p. plates,
    ports. E185.82.B824
      Bibliography: p. 213-228.
      Contents.—The Negro genius.—Phillis Wheatley.—A hundred years
      of striving.—Orators. Douglass and Washington.—Paul Laurence
      Dunbar.—Charles W. Chesnutt.—W. E. Burghardt DuBois.—William
      Stanley Braithwaite.—James Weldon Johnson.—Other writers.—The
      new realists.—The stage.—Painters. Henry O. Tanner.—Sculptors.
      Meta Warrick Fuller.—Music.—Appendix: The Negro in American
      fiction. The Negro in American literature.—The Negro in
      contemporary literature.

      953
    Bronz, Stephen H. Roots of Negro racial consciousness; the
    1920’s: three Harlem Renaissance authors. New York, Libra [1964]
    101 p. PS508.N3B73
      Bibliography: p. 95-101.
      Contents.—Introduction.—James Weldon Johnson.—Countee
      Cullen.—Claude McKay.—Conclusion.—Notes.

      954
    Brown, Sterling A. The Negro in American fiction. Washington,
    Associates in Negro Folk Education, 1937. 209 p. (Bronze booklet
    no. 6) [E185.5.B85] no. 6 PS374.N4B7
      "Selected reading list": p. 207-209.

      955
    Butcher, Margaret J. The Negro in American culture; based on
    materials left by Alain Locke. New York, Knopf, 1956. 294 p.
    E185.82.B89

      956
    Dreer, Herman. American literature by Negro authors. New York,
    Macmillan, 1950. xvii, 334 p. ports. PS508.N3D7
      Bibliography: p. 327-332.

      957
    Ellison, Ralph. Shadow and act. New York, Random House [1964]
    xxii, 317 p. PS153.N5E4 1964

      958
    Ferguson, Blanche E. Countee Cullen and the Negro renaissance.
    New York, Dodd, Mead [1966] 213 p. illus., ports. PS3505.U287Z6
      Bibliography: p. 205-206.

      959
    Ford, Nick A. The contemporary Negro novel; a study in race
    relations. College Park, Md., McGrath Pub. Co., 1968 [c1936] 108
    p. PS374.N4F6 1968
      Bibliography: p. 107-108.

      960
    Gloster, Hugh M. Negro voices in American fiction. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1948. xiv, 295 p. PS374.N4G5
      Bibliography: p. 273-288.

      961
    Green, Elizabeth A. L. The Negro in contemporary American
    literature; an outline for individual and group study. College
    Park, Md., McGrath Pub. Co. [1968, c1928] 92 p. PS153.N5G7 1968
      Includes bibliographical references.

      962
    Gross, Seymour L., _and_ John E. Hardy, _eds._ Images of the
    Negro in American literature. Chicago, University of Chicago
    Press [1966] 321 p. (Patterns of literary criticism) PS173.N4G7
      Bibliography: p. 289-315.

      963
    Hughes, John M. C. The Negro novelist; a discussion of the
    writings of American Negro novelists, 1940-1950, by Carl Milton
    Hughes [pseud.]. New York, Citadel Press [1953] 288 p.
    PS374.N4H8
      Bibliography: p. [279]-285.

      964
    Littlejohn, David. Black on white; a critical survey of writing
    by American Negroes. New York, Grossman, 1966. 180 p. PS153.N5L5

      965
    Loggins, Vernon. The Negro author, his development in America to
    1900. Port Washington, N. Y., Kennikat Press [1964, c1959] 480
    p. (Columbia University studies in English and comparative
    literature) PS153.N5L65 1964
        Issued also as thesis, Columbia University, 1931.
        "Bibliographies": p. [408]-457.

      966
    Margolies, Edward. Native sons; a critical study of
    twentieth-century Negro American authors. Philadelphia,
    Lippincott [1968] 210 p. PS153.N5M26
      Contents.—Perspectives.—The first forty years: 1900-1940; [W.
      E. B. DuBois and others]—Migration: William Attaway and _Blood
      on the Forge_.—Richard Wright: _Native Son_ and three kinds of
      revolution.—Race and sex; the novels of Chester Himes.—The
      Negro church; James Baldwin and the Christian vision.—History
      as blues: Ralph Ellison’s _Invisible Man_.—The new
      nationalism: Malcolm X.—The expatriate as novelist: William
      Demby.—Prospects: LeRoi Jones?—Bibliography (p. 201).

      967
    McCall, Dan. The example of Richard Wright. New York, Harcourt,
    Brace & World [c1969] 202 p. PS3545.R815Z7

      968
    Mays, Benjamin E. The Negro’s God as reflected in his
    literature. Lithographs by James L. Wells. Boston, Chapman &
    Grimes [c1938] 269 p. PS153.N5M3
      Bibliography: p. 257-263.

      969
    Nelson, John H. The Negro character in American literature.
    Lawrence, Kan., Dept. of Journalism Press, 1926. 146 p.
    (Bulletin of the University of Kansas, v. 27, no. 15.
    _Humanistic studies._ v. 4, no. 1) PS173.N4N4 1926a
      Issued also in bound form as _Humanistic Studies_, v. 4, no.
      1, without the cover having series note, Bulletin of the
      University of Kansas, v. 27, no. 15.

      970
    Nilon, Charles H. Faulkner and the Negro. Boulder, University of
    Colorado Press, 1962. 111 p. (University of Colorado studies.
    Series in language and literature, no. 8) P25.C64 no. 8
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      971
    Redding, Jay Saunders. To make a poet black. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1939. 142 p. PS153.N5R4 [TR:
    Redding, J. Saunders]
      "Factual material and critical opinion on American Negro
      literature."—Preface.
      Bibliography: p. [131]-136.

      972
    Turner, Darwin T., _and_ Jean M. Bright, _eds._ Images of the
    Negro in America. Boston, D. C. Heath [1965] 113 p. (Selected
    source materials for college research papers) PS508.N3T8
      Bibliographical references included in "Suggestions for
      library work" (p. 112-113).

      973
    Turner, Lorenzo D. Anti-slavery sentiment in American literature
    prior to 1865. Port Washington, N. Y., Kennikat Press [1966] 188
    p. PS169.S47T8 1966
      Reprint of a thesis, University of Chicago, 1926.
      Bibliography: p. 153-182.

      974
    Wagner, Jean. Les poètes nègres des États-Unis; le sentiment
    racial et religieux dans la poésie de P. L. Dunbar à L. Hughes
    (1890-1940). Paris, Librairie Istra, 1963 [c1962] 637 p.
    PS153.N5W3
      Bibliography: p. [601]-620.




20—LITERATURE—Anthologies


      975
    Brown, Sterling A., Arthur P. Davis, _and_ Ulysses G. Lee,
    _eds._ The Negro caravan, writings by American Negroes. New
    York, Dryden Press [c1941] xviii, 1082 p. PS508.N3B75
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      976
    Calverton, Victor F., _ed._ Anthology of American Negro
    literature, edited, with an introduction, by V. F. Calverton.
    New York, Modern Library [c1929] 535 p. (The Modern library of
    the world’s best books) PS591.N4C3 [TR: Calverton, V. F.]
      Bibliography: p. 700-718.

      977
    Chapman, Abraham, _comp._ Black voices; an anthology of
    Afro-American literature. Edited, with an introduction and
    biographical notes, by Abraham Chapman. New York, New American
    Library [1968] 718 p. (A Mentor book) PS508.N3C5
      Bibliography: p. 700-718.

      978
    Conference of Negro Writers. _1st, New York, 1959._ The American
    Negro writer and his roots; selected papers. New York, American
    Society of African Culture, 1960. 70 p. illus. PS153.N5C6 1959ac

      979
    Cromwell, Otelia, Lorenzo D. Turner, _and_ Eva B. Dykes, _eds._
    Readings from Negro authors, for schools and colleges, with a
    bibliography of Negro literature. New York, Harcourt, Brace
    [c1931] 388 p. PS508.N3C7
      "A bibliography of Negro literature": p. 371-383; contains
      "Collateral reading."

      980
    Culp, Daniel W., _ed._ Twentieth century Negro literature; or, A
    cyclopedia of thought on the vital topics relating to the
    American Negro, by one hundred of America’s greatest Negroes.
    Naperville, Ill., J. L. Nichols [1902] 472 p. ports. E185.5.C97

      981
    Cunard, Nancy, _comp._ Negro; anthology, made by Nancy Cunard,
    1931-1933. London, Published by Nancy Cunard at Wishart, 1934.
    854 p. illus., facsims., maps, ports. HT1581.C8 [TR: E185.5.C98
    1934]
      Contains music.
      Contents.—America.—Negro stars.—Music.—Poetry.—West Indies and
      South America.—Europe.—Africa.

      982
    Emanuel, James A., _and_ Theodore L. Gross, _comps._ Dark
    symphony: Negro literature in America. New York, Free Press
    [1968] xviii, 604 p. PS508.N3E4
      Bibliography: p. 564-600.

      983
    Hill, Herbert, _ed._ Anger, and beyond: the Negro writer in the
    United States. New York, Harper & Row [1966] xxii, 227 p.
    PS153.N5H5

      984
    Hill, Herbert, _ed._ Soon, one morning; new writing by American
    Negroes, 1940-1962. Selected and edited, with an introduction
    and biographical notes, by Herbert Hill. New York, Knopf, 1963.
    617 p. PS508.N3H5

      985
    Hughes, Langston. The Langston Hughes reader. New York, G.
    Braziller, 1958. 501 p. PS3515.U274A6 1958

      986
    Johnson, Charles S., _ed._ Ebony and topaz, a collectanea. New
    York, Opportunity, National Urban League [c1927] 164 p. illus.,
    facsims., plates, ports. PS508.N3J6

      987
    Jones, LeRoi, _and_ Larry Neal, _comps._ Black fire; an
    anthology of Afro-American writing. New York, Morrow, 1968.
    xviii, 670 p. illus. [PS508.N3J64] [TR: PS508.N3B33]

      988
    Jones, LeRoi, _ed._ The moderns; an anthology of new writing in
    America. New York, Corinth Books, 1963. xvi, 351 p. PS536.J6
    [TR: PS536.2.B29 1963 Baraka, Imamu Amiri]
      Bibliographical references included in "Acknowledgments" (p.
      [vii-viii]).

      989
    Locke, Alain L., _ed._ The new Negro; an interpretation. With a
    new introduction by Allan H. Spear. New York, Johnson Reprint
    Corp., 1968. xxii, xviii, 446 p. illus., music, ports.
    E185.82.L75 1968
      The text is a reprint of the 1925 ed.
      Includes bibliographies.

      990
    Moon, Bucklin, _ed._ Primer for white folks. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, Doran, 1945. xiv, 491 p. E185.5.M72

      991
    Plato, Ann. Essays; including biographies and miscellaneous
    pieces, in prose and poetry. Hartford, Printed for the author,
    1841. xx, 122 p. PS2593.P347 1841

      992
    Watkins, Sylvestre C., _ed._ Anthology of American Negro
    literature; with an introduction by John T. Frederick. New York,
    Modern Library [1944] xvii, 481 p. (The Modern library of the
    world’s best books) PS508.N3W3
      "Biographical notes": p. [457]-481.

      993
    Watts Writers’ Workshop. From the ashes; voices of Watts. Edited
    and with an introduction by Budd Schulberg. [New York] New
    American Library [1967] 277 p. PS508.N3W33

      994
    Williams, John A., _comp._ Beyond the angry black. [2d ed.] New
    York, Cooper Square Publishers, 1966. xix, 198 p. PS509.N4B4
    1966

    A reissue with new material of _The Angry Black_, published in
    1962.




21—LITERATURE—Essays and Addresses


      995
    Adoff, Arnold, _comp._ Black on black; commentaries by Negro
    Americans. Foreword by Roger Mae Johnson. New York, Macmillan
    [1968] 236 p. E185.5.A24

      996
    Ahmann, Mathew H., _ed._ The new Negro. Contributors: Stephen J.
    Wright [and others]. In the symposium: James Baldwin [and
    others]. Notre Dame, Ind., Fides Publishers [1961] 145 p.
    E185.6.A26
      Includes papers presented at the 1st convention of the
      National Catholic Conference for Interracial Justice, held in
      Detroit in 1961.

      997
    Baldwin, James. Nobody knows my name; more notes of a native
    son. New York, Dial Press, 1961. 241 p. E185.61.B197

      998
    Bennett, Lerone. The Negro mood, and other essays. Chicago,
    Johnson Pub. Co., 1964. 104 p. E185.61.B43

      999
    Bernstein, Barton J., _ed._ Towards a new past; dissenting
    essays in American history. New York, Pantheon Books [1968] 364
    p. E175.B46
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1000
    Brotz, Howard, _ed._ Negro social and political thought,
    1850-1920; representative texts. New York, Basic Books [1966]
    593 p. E185.B876
      Includes bibliographies.

      1001
    Clark, Kenneth B. Social power and social change in contemporary
    America; an address [delivered on July 18, 1966, before an
    audience of summer interns working in the Dept. of State, the
    Agency for International Development, and the United States
    Information Agency. Washington, Dept. of State; for sale by the
    Supt. of Docs., U. S. Govt. Print. Off., 1966] 20 p. ([U.S.]
    Dept. of State. Publication 8125. Department and Foreign Service
    series, 134) HN57.C55
      "Prepared under the auspices of the U.S. Department of State’s
      Equal Employment Opportunity Program, Office of the Deputy
      Under Secretary for Administration."

      1002
    Clarke, John H., _ed._ William Styron’s Nat Turner; ten black
    writers respond. Boston, Beacon Press [1968] 120 p. illus.
    PS3569.T9C633
      Appendix (p. [93]-117): The text of _The Confessions of Nat
      Turner_.

      1003
    Crummell, Alexander. Africa and America; addresses and
    discourses. Springfield, Mass., Willey, 1891. 466 p. port.
    E185.5.C95

      1004
    Crummell, Alexander. The relations and duties of free colored
    men in America to Africa. A letter to Charles B. Dunbar.
    Hartford, Press of Case, Lockwood, 1861. 54 p. E448.C95

      1005
    Daedalus. The Negro American. Edited and with introductions by
    Talcott Parsons and Kenneth B. Clark, and with a foreword by
    Lyndon B. Johnson. Illustrated with a 32 page portfolio of
    photographs by Bruce Davidson, selected and introduced by Arthur
    D. Trottenberg. Boston, Houghton, Mifflin, 1966. xxix, 781 p.
    illus. (The Daedalus library [v. 7]) E185.6.D24
      Most of the essays, some in slightly different form, appeared
      originally in the fall 1965 and winter 1966 issues of
      _Daedalus_.
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1006
    Daniel, Bradford, _ed._ Black, white, and gray; twenty-one
    points of view on the race question. New York, Sheed and Ward
    [1964] 308 p. E185.61.D26

      1007
    Douglass, Frederick. Three addresses on the relations subsisting
    between the white and colored people of the United States.
    Washington, Gibson Bros., Printers, 1886. 68 p. E185.61.D734

      1008
    Drimmer, Melvin, _comp._ Black history; a reappraisal, edited
    with commentary by Melvin Drimmer. Garden City, N. Y.,
    Doubleday, 1968. xx, 553 p. E185.D7
      Essays which present the Negro’s role in American history,
      each prefaced by an analysis of the historical events
      surrounding the period it covers.
      Bibliography: p. [531]-538.

      1009
    DuBois, William E. B. Darkwater; voices from within the veil.
    New York, Harcourt, Brace and Howe, 1920. 276 p. [E183.5.D8]
    [TR: E185.61.D83 1920]
      Reprinted in part from various periodicals.

      1010
    DuBois, William E. B. The souls of black folk; essays and
    sketches. New York, Blue Heron Press, 1953. 264 p. illus.
    E185.5.D81 1953
      First printed in 1903.

      1011
    Ebony. White on black; the views of twenty-two white Americans
    on the Negro. Edited by Era Bell Thompson and Herbert Nipson,
    editors of Ebony magazine. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1963. 230
    p. E185.6.E26

      1012
    Franklin, John H. Lincoln and public morality; an address
    delivered at the Chicago Historical Society on February 12,
    1959. [Chicago] Chicago Historical Society, 1959. 24 p. JA79.F66

      1013
    Freedom of Information Conference, _8th, University of Missouri,
    1965_. Race and the news media. Edited by Paul L. Fisher and
    Ralph Lowenstein. New York, Praeger [1967] 158 p. E185.61.F84
    1965aa
      Papers and summaries of discussion sessions of the conference
      sponsored by the Freedom of Information Center of the
      University of Missouri and the Anti-defamation League of B’nai
      B’rith.

      1014
    Goldwin, Robert A., _comp._ Civil disobedience; five essays by
    Martin Luther King, Jr. [and others]. Edited by Robert A.
    Goldwin. [Gambier, Ohio, Public Affairs Conference Center,
    Kenyon College, 1968] 1 v. (various pagings) JC328.G58
      Bibliographical footnotes.
      Contents.—Letter from the Birmingham city jail, by M. L. King,
      Jr.—The case against civil disobedience, by H. J.
      Storing.—Reflections on civil disobedience and lawlessness, by
      P. Goodman.—Civil disobedience and beyond, by J. Farmer.—The
      American tradition of civil disobedience: a response to Henry
      David Thoreau, by H. V. Jaffa.

      1015
    Goldwin, Robert A., _ed._ 100 years of emancipation, essays by
    Harry V. Jaffa [and others]. Chicago, Rand McNally [1964] 217 p.
    (Rand McNally public affairs series) E185.61.G62 1964a
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1016
    Grimke, Francis J. Christianity and race prejudice; two
    discourses delivered in the Fifteenth Street Presbyterian
    Church, Washington, D.C., May 29th, and June 5th, 1910. By the
    pastor Rev. Francis J. Grimke. [Washington, Press of W. E. Cobb,
    1910] 29 p. E185.61.G87 BX9178.G764C6 no. 4

      1017
    Grimke, Francis J. Equality of rights for all citizens, black
    and white, alike. A discourse delivered in the Fifteenth Street
    Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C., Sunday, March 7th, 1909,
    by the pastor, Rev. Francis J. Grimke. [Washington, 1909] 19 p.
    E185.61.G875

      1018
    Hill, Roy L. Rhetoric of racial revolt. Denver, Golden Bell
    Press, 1964. 378 p. E185.6.H52

      1019
    Howard University, _Washington, D.C. Graduate School. Division
    of the Social Sciences_. The new Negro thirty years afterward;
    papers contributed to the sixteenth annual spring conference ...
    April 20, 21, and 22, 1955. Edited by Rayford W. Logan,
    chairman, Eugene C. Holmes [and] G. Franklin Edwards.
    Washington, Howard University Press, 1955 [i.e. 1956] 96 p.
    E185.5.H73 1955a
      "Dedicated to the memory of Professor Alain Locke."
      Includes bibliographies. "Bibliography of the writings of
      Alain Leroy Locke ... by Robert E. Martin": p. 89-96.

      1020
    Johnson, Lyndon B., _Pres. U.S._ The one huge wrong: President
    Lyndon Johnson speaking at Howard University in Washington on
    June 4, 1965, analysing the Negro problem; [linocut
    illustrations by Paul Peter Piech]. Bushey (Herts.), Taurus
    Press [1968] [15] p. illus. E185.J63
      "Two hundred and eighty [numbered] copies have been printed
      plus a 30 special bound edition. This is copy number 216."

      1021
    Jones, LeRoi. Home; social essays. New York, Morrow, 1966. 252
    p. [E185.6.J74] [TR: E185.6.B25 1966 Baraka, Imamu Amiri]

      1022
    King, Donald B., _and_ Charles W. Quick, _eds._ Legal aspects of
    the civil rights movement. With an introduction by James M.
    Nabrit, Jr. Detroit, Wayne State University Press, 1965. 447 p.
    [DLC-LL] [TR: KF4757.A5K5]
      "Civil rights law of 1964": p. 333-375.
      Bibliography: p. 431-446.

      1023
    King, Martin Luther. I have a dream; speech at the March on
    Washington. [n.p.] c1963. 6 p. E185.61.K53

      1024
    King, Martin Luther. The trumpet of conscience. New York, Harper
    & Row [1968, c1967] 78 p. (Massey lectures, 1967)
    E185.97.K5 1968
      Canadian ed. (Canadian Broadcasting Co.) has title:
      _Conscience for Change._

      1025
    Lincoln, Charles Eric. Sounds of the struggle; persons and
    perspectives in civil rights. New York, Morrow, 1967. 252 p.
    E185.615.L5
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1026
    Little, Malcolm. Malcolm X speaks; selected speeches and
    statements. [Edited, with prefatory notes, by George Breitman]
    New York, Merit Publishers, 1965. 242 p. illus., ports.
    E185.61.L58

      1027
    Little, Malcolm. The speeches of Malcolm X at Harvard. Edited,
    with an introductory essay, by Archie Epps. New York, W. Morrow,
    1968. 191 p. [E185.61.L59 1968] [TR: BP223.Z8L57 1968]
      Bibliographical references included in "Footnotes" (p.
      [183]-191).

      1028
    Mack, Raymond W. Race, class, and power. 2d ed. [New York]
    American Book Co. [1968] 468 p. E184.A1M145 1968
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1029
    Meier, August, _and_ Elliott M. Rudwick, _comps._ The making of
    black America; essays in Negro life & history. New York,
    Atheneum, 1969. xvi, 377, 507 p. (Studies in American Negro
    life) E185.M43
      Includes bibliographical references.
      Contents.—The origins of black Americans.—The black community
      in modern America.

      1030
    Miller, Kelly. Race adjustment [and] The everlasting stain. New
    York, Arno Press, 1968. 306, 352 p. (The American Negro, his
    history and literature) E185.M66 1968
      Reprint of the 1908 ed. of _Race Adjustment_ and of the 1924
      ed. of _The Everlasting Stain_.

      1031
    Murphy, Raymond J., _and_ Howard Elinson, _eds._ Problems &
    prospects of the Negro movement. Belmont, Calif., Wadsworth Pub.
    Co. [1966] 440 p. illus., (Wadsworth continuing education
    series) E185.615.M8
      Bibliography: p. 437-440. Includes bibliographical references.

      1032
    Nelson, Alice R. M. D., _ed._ Masterpieces of Negro eloquence;
    the best speeches delivered by the Negro from the days of
    slavery to the present time. New York, Bookery Pub. Co. [c1914]
    512 p. port. PS663.N4N4 [TR: Dunbar-Nelson, Alice Moore]

      1033
    Pipes, William H. Death of an "Uncle Tom." New York, Carlton
    Press [1967] 118 p. (A Hearthstone book) E185.61.P6
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1034
    Redding, Jay Saunders. No day of triumph. With an introduction
    by Richard Wright. New York, Harper [1942] 342 p. E185.6.R42

      1035
    Roussève, Ronald J. Discord in brown and white; nine essays on
    intergroup relations in the United States by a Negro American.
    New York, Vantage Press [1961] 89 p. E185.61.R82
      "Selected references": p. 87-89.

      1036
    Stone, Chuck. Tell it like it is. New York, Trident Press, 1967
    [c1968] 211 p. E185.61.S872 1968

      1037
    Theobald, Robert. An alternative future for America; essays and
    speeches. Edited by Kendall College. [Chicago, Swallow Press,
    1968] 186 p. illus. HN65.T44

      1038
    Truman, Harry S., _Pres. U.S._ Freedom and equality, addresses.
    David S. Horton, editor. Columbia, University of Missouri Press
    [1960] 85 p. JC599.U5T7

      1039
    Washington, Booker T. Character building; being addresses
    delivered on Sunday evenings to the students of Tuskegee
    Institute. New York, Doubleday, Page, 1902. 291 p. front.
    BJ1581.W15

      1040
    Washington, Booker T. Selected speeches. Edited by E. Davidson
    Washington. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, Doran, 1932. xvi, 283
    p. port. E185.6.W319

      1041
    Westin, Alan F., _ed._ Freedom now! The civil-rights struggle in
    America. New York, Basic Books [1964] xv, 346 p. E185.61.W54
      Bibliography: p.[329]-341.

      1042
    Why I believe there is a God; sixteen essays by Negro clergymen.
    With an introduction by Howard Thurman. Chicago, Johnson Pub.
    Co., 1965. 120 p. BT102.W5

      1043
    Wish, Harvey, _ed._ The Negro since emancipation. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1964] 184 p. (A Spectrum book)
    E185.61.W79
      Bibliography: p. 183-184.

      1044
    Woodson, Carter G., _ed._ Negro orators and their orations. New
    York, Russell & Russell [1969] 711 p. PS663.N4W6 1969
      Reprint of the 1925 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.




22—LITERATURE—Fiction


      1044a
    Ashby, William M. Redder blood; a novel. New York, Cosmopolitan
    Press, 1915. 188 p. PZ3.A8234Re [TR: PS3501.S489]

      1045
    Attaway, William. Blood on the forge, a novel. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, Doran, 1941. 279 p. PZ3.A882Bl [TR: PS3501.T59]

      1046
    Baldwin, James. Another country. New York, Dial Press, 1962. 436
    p. PZ4.B18An2 [TR: PS3552.A45]

      1047
    Baldwin, James. Giovanni’s room; a novel. New York, Dial Press,
    1956. 248 p. PZ4.B18Gi [TR: PS3552.A45]

      1048
    Baldwin, James. Go tell it on the mountain. New York, Knopf,
    1953. 303 p. [PZ4.B18Go] [TR: PS3552.A45G62 1953]

      1049
    Baldwin, James. Going to meet the man. New York, Dial Press,
    1965. 249 p. PZ4.B18Gq [TR: PS3552.A45]
      Contents.—The rockpile.—The outing.—The man child.—Previous
      condition.—Sonny’s blues.—This morning, this evening, so
      soon.—Come out the wilderness.—Going to meet the man.

      1050
    Baldwin, James. Tell me how long the train’s been gone; a novel.
    New York, Dial Press, 1968. 484 p. PS3552.A45T4

      1051
    Baltimore Afro-American. Best short stories by Afro-American
    writers, 1925-1950, selected and edited by Nick Aaron Ford and
    H. L. Faggett. Boston, Meador Pub. Co. [1950] 307 p. [PZ1.B23Be]
    [TR: PZ1.B44684]

      1052
    Bennett, Hal. A wilderness of vines. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1966. 345 p. PZ4.B4696Wi [TR: PS3552.E546]

      1053
    Boles, Robert. Curling, a novel. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1968
    [c1967] 259 p. PZ4.B6883Cu

      1054
    Bontemps, Arna W. Black thunder. New York, Macmillan, 1936. 298
    p. PZ3.B64442Bl [TR: PS3503.O474]

      1055
    Bontemps, Arna W. Chariot in the sky; a story of the Jubilee
    Singers. Illustrations by Cyrus Leroy Baldridge. Philadelphia,
    Winston [1951] 234 p. illus. (Land of the Free series)
    PZ7.B6443Ch

      1056
    Bontemps, Arna W. Drums at dusk; a novel. New York, Macmillan,
    1939. 226 p. illus. PZ3.B64442Dr [TR: PS3503.O474]

      1056a
    Bontemps, Arna W. God sends Sunday. New York, Harcourt, Brace
    [c1931] 199 p. PZ3.B64442Go [TR: PS3503.O474]

      1057
    Bosworth, William. The long search, a novel. Great Barrington,
    Mass., Advance Pub. Co. [1957] 303 p. PZ4.B7475Lo

      1058
    Brooks, Gwendolyn. Maud Martha, a novel. New York, Harper [1953]
    180 p. PZ4.B872Mau [TR: PS3503.R7244]

      1059
    Brown, Frank L. Trumbull Park, a novel. Chicago, Regnery [1959]
    432 p. PZ4.B8774Tr [TR: PS3552.R68549]

      1060
    Brown, Lloyd L. Iron City, a novel. New York, Masses &
    Mainstream, 1951. 255 p. PZ4.B879Ir

      1061
    Brown, William W. Clotel. New York, Arno Press, 1969. 245 p.
    illus. (Afro-American culture series) [DLC] [TR: PZ3.B8199Cl7;
    PS1139.B9]
      Reprint of the 1853 ed.
      The first novel written by a Negro.

      1062
    Chastain, Thomas. Judgment day. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday,
    1962. 213 p. PZ4.C489Ju [TR: PS3553.H3416]

      1063
    Chesnutt, Charles W. The colonel’s dream. New York, Doubleday,
    Page, 1905. 294 p. PZ3.C4253Cl [TR: PS1292.C6]

      1064
    Chesnutt, Charles W. The conjure woman. Ridgewood, N. J., Gregg
    Press [1968] 229 p. (Americans in fiction) PZ3.C4253C5 [TR:
    PS1292.C6]
      Reprint of the 1899 ed.
      Contents.—The goophered grapevine.—Po’ Sandy. Mars Jeem’s
      nightmare.—The conjurer’s revenge.—Sis’ Becky’s
      pickaninny.—The gray wolf’s ha’nt.—Hot-Foot Hannibal.

      1065
    Chesnutt, Charles W. The house behind the cedars. Boston,
    Houghton, Mifflin, 1900. 294 p. PZ3.C4253H [TR: PS1292.C6]

      1066
    Chesnutt, Charles W. The marrow of tradition. New York, Arno
    Press, 1969. 329 p. (The American Negro, his history and
    literature) [PZ3.C425M5] [TR: PZ3.C4253Mar 1969; PS1292.C6]
      Afro-American culture series.
      Reprint of the 1901 ed.

      1067
    Chesnutt, Charles W. The wife of his youth, and other stories of
    the color line. With illustrations by Clyde O. De Land. Boston,
    Houghton, Mifflin, 1899. 323 p. plates. PZ3.C4253W
    [TR:PS1292.C6]
      Contents.—The wife of his youth.—Her Virginia mammy.—The
      sheriff’s children.—A matter of principle.—Cicely’s dream.—The
      passing of Grandison.—Uncle Wellington’s wives.—The
      bouquet.—The web of circumstance.

      1068
    Clarke, John H., _ed._ American Negro short stories. New York,
    Hill and Wang [1966] xix, 355 p. PZ1.C563Am

      1068a
    Cotter, Joseph S. Negro tales. New York, Cosmopolitan Press,
    1912. 148 p. port. PZ3.C8274N [TR: PS3505.O862]

      1069
    Crump, Paul. Burn, killer, burn! Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co.
    [1962] 391 p. illus. PZ4.C9563Bu

      1070
    Cullen, Countee. My lives and how I lost them, by Christopher
    Cat in collaboration with Countee Cullen, with drawings by
    Robert Reid Macguire. New York, Harper [c1942] xiv, 160 p.
    illus. PZ3.C89761My [TR: PS3505.U287]

      1071
    Cullen, Countee. One way to heaven. New York, Harper, 1932. 230
    p. PZ3.C89761On [TR: PS3505.U287]

      1071a
    Daly, Victor. Not only war, a story of two great conflicts.
    Boston, [The] Christopher Pub. House [c1932] 106 p. PZ3.D179No
    [TR: PS3507.A475]

      1072
    Davis, Christopher. First family. New York, Coward-McCann [1961]
    253 p. PZ4.D2596Fi [TR: PS3554.A933]

      1073
    Demby, William. Beetlecreek, a novel. New York, Rinehart [1950]
    223 p. PZ3.D3923Be [TR: PS3507.E5346]

      1074
    Demby, William. The catacombs. New York, Pantheon Books [1965]
    244 p. PZ3.D3923Cat [TR: PS3507.E5346]

      1075
    Dodson, Owen. Boy at the window, a novel. New York, Farrar,
    Straus and Young [1951] 212 p. PZ4.D647Bo [TR: Farrar, Straus &
    Giroux]
      Paperback ed. (New York, Popular Library, 1965) has title:
      _When Trees Were Green._

      1076
    DuBois, William E. B. Dark princess, a romance. New York,
    Harcourt, Brace [c1928] 311 p. PZ3.D8525Da [TR: PS3507.U147]

      1077
    DuBois, William E. B. Mansart builds a school. New York,
    Mainstream Publishers, 1959. 367 p. (_His_ The black flame, a
    trilogy, book 2) PZ3.D8525Man [TR: PS3507.U147]

      1078
    DuBois, William E. B. The ordeal of Mansart. New York,
    Mainstream Publishers, 1957. 316 p. (_His_ The black flame, a
    trilogy, book 1) PZ3.D8525Or [TR: PS3507.U147]

      1079
    DuBois, William E. B. The quest of the silver fleece; a novel.
    Illustrated by H. S. DeLay. Chicago, A. C. McClurg, 1911. 434 p.
    plates. PZ3.D8525Q

      1080
    DuBois, William E. B. Worlds of color. New York, Mainstream
    Publishers, 1961. 349 p. (_His_ The black flame, a trilogy, book
    3) PZ3.D8525Wo [TR: PS3507.U147]

      1081
    Dunbar, Paul L. The fanatics. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1901. 312 p.
    PZ3.D911F [TR: PS1556]

      1082
    Dunbar, Paul L. Folks from Dixie. With illustrations by E. W.
    Kemble. New York, Dodd, Mead, 1898. 263 p. plates (part col.)
    PZ3.D911Fo3 [TR: PS1556]
      Contents.—Anner’ Lizer’s stumblin’ block.—The ordeal at Mt.
      Hope.—The colonel’s awakening.—The trial sermons on
      Bull-Skin.—Jimsella.—Mt. Pisgah’s Christmas ’possum.—A family
      feud.—Aunt Mandy’s investment.—The intervention of
      Peter.—Nelse Hatton’s vengeance.—At Shaft 11.—The deliberation
      of Mr. Dunkin.

      1083
    Dunbar, Paul L. The love of Landry. New York, Dodd, Mead [1900]
    200 p. PZ3.D911L [TR: PS1556]

      1084
    Dunbar, Paul L. The sport of the Gods. New York, Arno Press,
    1969. 255 p. (The American Negro, his history and literature)
    PZ3.D911Sp6 [TR: PS1556]
      Afro-American culture series.
      Reprint of the 1902 ed.

      1085
    Dunbar, Paul L. The strength of Gideon, and other stories. New
    York, Arno Press, 1969. 362 p. (The American Negro; his history
    and literature) PZ3.D911St7 [TR: PS1556]
      Afro-American culture series.
      Reprint of the 1900 ed.

      1086
    Dunbar, Paul L. The uncalled; a novel. New York, Dodd, Mead,
    1898. 255 p. PZ3.D911U3 [TR: PS1556]

      1087
    Ellison, Ralph. Invisible man. New York, Random House [1952] 429
    p. [PZ4.E45In] [TR: PS3555.L625I5 1952]

      1088
    Fauset, Jessie R. The chinaberry tree; a novel of American life.
    New York, F. A. Stokes Co., 1931. 341 p. PZ3.F276Ch [TR:
    PS3511.A864]

      1089
    Fauset, Jessie R. Comedy, American style. New York, F. A. Stokes
    Co., 1933. 326 p. PZ3.F276Co [TR: PS3511.A864]

      1090
    Fauset, Jessie R. There is confusion. New York, Boni and
    Liveright, 1924. 297 p. PZ3.F276Th [TR: PS3511.A864]

      1091
    Fisher, Rudolph. The conjure-man dies; a mystery tale of dark
    Harlem. New York, Covici, Friede [c1932] 316 p. PZ3.F5367Co [TR:
    PS3511.I7436]

      1092
    Fisher, Rudolph. The walls of Jericho. New York, Knopf, 1928.
    307 p. PZ3.F5367Wa [TR: PS3511.I7436]
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      1093
    Graham, Lorenz B. South Town. Chicago, Follett Pub. Co. [1958]
    189 p. PZ4.G74So

      1094
    Graham, Shirley. Jean Baptiste Pointe de Sable, founder of
    Chicago. New York, J. Messner [1953] 180 p. [PZ7.G757Je] [TR:
    F548.4.P7423]

      1095
    Graham, Shirley. The story of Phillis Wheatley; illustrations by
    Robert Burns. New York, J. Messner [1949] 176 p. illus., port.
    [PZ7.G757St] [TR: PS866.W5Z585 Du Bois, Shirley Graham]
      "Sources": p. 172.

      1096
    Griggs, Sutton E. The hindered hand; or, The reign of the
    repressionist. Nashville, Orion Pub. Co., 1905. 303 p. PZ3.G888H
    [TR: PS3513.R7154]

      1096a
    Griggs, Sutton E. Pointing the way. Nashville, Orion Pub. Co.,
    1908. 233 p. PZ3.G888P [TR: PS3513.R7154]

      1097
    Harper, Frances E. W. Iola Leroy; or, Shadows uplifted.
    Philadelphia, Garrigues Bros., 1892. 282 p. port. PS1799.H7I6

      1098
    Henderson, George W. Jule. New York, Creative Age Press [1946]
    234 p. PZ3.H3845Ju [TR: PS3515.E43422 Henderson, George Wylie.]

      1099
    Henderson, George W. Ollie Miss, a novel. Blocks by Lowell Leroy
    Balcolm. New York, F. A. Stokes Co., 1935. 276 p. illus.,
    plates. PZ3.H3845Ol [TR: PS3515.E43422 Henderson, George Wylie.]

      1100
    Hill, John H. Princess Malah. Washington, Associated Publishers
    [c1933] 330 p. PZ3.H5521Pr [TR: PS3515.I492]

      1101
    Himes, Chester B. Blind man with a pistol. New York, W. Morrow,
    1969. 240 p. PZ3.H57Bl [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1102
    Himes, Chester B. Cast the first stone, a novel. New York,
    Coward-McCann [1952] 346 p. PZ3.H57Cas [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1103
    Himes, Chester B. If he hollers let him go. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, Doran, 1945. 249 p. PZ3.H57If [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1104
    Himes, Chester B. Lonely crusade. New York, Knopf, 1947. 398 p.
    PZ3.H57Lo [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1105
    Himes, Chester B. Pinktoes. Paris, Olympia Press [1961] 207 p.
    (The Traveller’s companion series, no. 87) PZ3.H57Pi [TR:
    PS3515.I713]

      1106
    Himes, Chester B. The primitive. [New York] New American Library
    [1955] 151 p. (A Signet book, 1264) PZ3.H57Pr [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1107
    Himes, Chester B. The third generation. Cleveland, World Pub.
    Co. [1954] 350 p. PZ3.H57Th [TR: PS3515.I713]

      1108
    Hughes, Langston. The best of Simple. Illustrated by Bernhard
    Nast. New York, Hill and Wang [1961] 245 p. illus. (American
    century series, AC39) PS3515.U274B4

      1109
    Hughes, Langston, _ed._ The best short stories by Negro writers;
    an anthology from 1899 to the present. Boston, Little, Brown
    [1967] xvii, 508 p. PZ1.H849Be

      1110
    Hughes, Langston. Laughing to keep from crying. New York, Holt
    [1952] 206 p. PZ3.H87313Lau [TR: PS3515.U274]
      Short stories.

      1111
    Hughes, Langston. Not without laughter. New York, Knopf, 1930.
    324 p. PZ3.H87313No [TR: PS3515.U274]

      1112
    Hughes, Langston. Simple speaks his mind. [New York] Simon and
    Schuster [1950] 231 p. PS3515.U274S53

      1113
    Hughes, Langston. Something in common, and other stories. New
    York, Hill and Wang [1963] 236 p. (American century series)
    PZ3.H87313So [TR: PS3515.U274]

      1114
    Hughes, Langston. Tambourines to glory, a novel. New York, J.
    Day Co. [1958] 188 p. PZ3.H87313Tam [TR: PS3515.U274]

      1115
    Hughes, Langston. The ways of white folks. New York, Knopf,
    1934. 248 p. PZ3.H87313Way [TR: PS3515.U274]
      Short stories.

      1116
    Hunter, Kristin. God bless the child. New York, Scribner [1964]
    307 p. PZ4.H9457Go [TR: PS3558.U483 Lattany, Kristin Hunter]

      1117
    Hunter, Kristin. The landlord. New York, Scribner [1966] 338 p.
    PZ4.H9457Lan [TR: PS3558.U483 Lattany, Kristin Hunter]

      1118
    Hurston, Zora N. Seraph on the Suwanee, a novel. New York,
    Scribner, 1948. 311 p. PZ3.H9457Se [TR: PS3515.U789]

      1119
    Hurston, Zora N. Their eyes were watching God; a novel.
    Philadelphia, Lippincott [c1937] 286 p. PZ3.H9457Th [TR:
    PS3515.U789]

      1120
    [Johnson, James W.] The autobiography of an ex-colored man.
    Boston, Sherman, French, 1912. 207 p. PZ3.P633Au [TR:
    PS3519.O2625]

      1121
    Jones, LeRoi. The system of Dante’s Hell; [a novel]. New York,
    Grove Press [1965] 154 p. [PZ4.J774Sy] [TR: PZ4.B2267Sy;
    PS3552.A583 Baraka, Imamu Amiri]

      1122
    Jones, LeRoi. Tales. New York, Grove Press [1967] 132 p.
    [PZ4.J774Tal] [TR: PZ4.B2267Tal; PS3552.A583 Baraka, Imamu
    Amiri]

      1123
    Kelley, William M. Dancers on the shore. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1964. 201 p. PZ4.K285Dan [TR: PS3561.E392]
      Short stories.

      1124
    Kelley, William M. Dem. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1967. 210
    p. PZ4.K285De [TR: PS3561.E392]

      1125
    Kelley, William M. A drop of patience. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1965. 237 p. PZ4.K285Dr [TR: PS3561.E392]

      1126
    Killens, John O. And then we heard the thunder. New York, Knopf,
    1963 [c1962] 485 p. PZ4.K48An2 [TR: PS3561.I37]

      1127
    Killens, John O. ’Sippi. New York, Trident Press, 1967. 434 p.
    PZ4.K48Si [TR: PS3561.I37]

      1128
    Killens, John O. Youngblood. New York, Dial Press, 1954. 566 p.
    PZ4.K48Yo [TR: PS3561.I37]

      1129
    Larsen, Nella. Passing. New York, Knopf, 1929. 215 p. PZ3.L33Pas
    [TR: PS3523.A7225]

      1130
    Larsen, Nella. Quicksand. New York, Knopf, 1928. 301 p.
    PZ3.L33Qu [TR: PS3523.A7225]

      1131
    Lee, George W. River George. New York, Macaulay Co. [c1937] 275
    p. PZ3.L5123Ri [TR: PS3523.E324]

      1132
    Marshall, Paule. Brown girl, brownstones. New York, Random House
    [1959] 310 p. PZ4.M369Br [TR: PS3563.A7223]

      1133
    Mayfield, Julian. The grand parade. New York, Vanguard Press
    [1961] 448 p. PZ4.M47Gr [TR: PS3563.A9566]

      1134
    Mayfield, Julian. The hit, a novel. New York, Vanguard Press
    [1957] 212 p. PZ4.M47Hi [TR: PS3563.A9566]

      1135
    Mayfield, Julian. The long night. New York, Vanguard Press
    [1958] 156 p. illus. PZ4.M47Lo [TR: PS3563.A9566]

      1136
    Micheaux, Oscar. The story of Dorothy Stanfield, based on a
    great insurance swindle, and a woman! A novel. New York, Book
    Supply Co., 1946. 416 p. col. front. PZ3.M5809St [TR:
    PS3525.I1875]

      1137
    Miller, Warren. The cool world, a novel. Boston, Little, Brown
    [1959] 241 p. PZ4.M65Co [TR: PS3563.I42155]

      1138
    Motley, Willard. Knock on any door. New York, Appleton-Century
    Co. [1947] 503 p. [PZ3.M8573Kn] [TR: PS3563.O888K6 1947]

      1139
    Motley, Willard. Let no man write my epitaph. New York, Random
    House [1958] 467 p. PZ3.M8573Le [TR: PS3563.O888]

      1140
    Motley, Willard. Let noon be fair, a novel. New York, Putnam
    [c1966] 416 p. PZ3.M8573Lg [TR: PS3563.O888]

      1141
    Motley, Willard. We fished all night. New York,
    Appleton-Century-Crofts [1951] 560 p. PZ3.M8573We
    [TR:PS3563.O888]

      1142
    Ottley, Roi. White marble lady. New York, Farrar, Straus and
    Giroux [1965] 278 p. PZ4.O894Wh

      1142a
    Parks, Gordon. The learning tree. New York, Harper & Row [1963]
    303 p. PZ4.P249Le [TR: PS3566.A73]

      1143
    Paynter, John H. Fugitives of the Pearl. Washington, Associated
    Publishers [c1930] 209 p. ports. PZ3.P2938Fu [TR: PS3531.A94]
      "Descendants of Paul and Amelia Edmonson": p. [203]-209.

      1144
    Petry, Ann L. Country place. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1947. 266
    p. PZ3.P44904Co

      1145
    Petry, Ann L. The narrows. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1953. 428
    p. PZ3.P44904Nar

      1146
    Petry, Ann L. The street. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1946. 435 p.
    [PZ3.P44904St] [TR: PS3531.E933S75 1946]
      "A Houghton Mifflin literary fellowship novel."

      1147
    Pharr, Robert D. The book of numbers. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1969. 374 p. [PS3566.H3B6 1969] [TR: PZ4.P536Bo3;
    PS3566.H33]

      1148
    Pickens, William. The vengeance of the gods, and three other
    stories of real American color line life. Introduction by Bishop
    John Hurst. Philadelphia, A.M.E. Book Concern [c1922] 125 p.
    PZ3.P5853Ve
      Contents.—The vengeance of the gods.—The superior
      race.—Passing the buck.—Tit for tat.

      1149
    Polite, Carlene H. The flagellants. New York [Farrar, Straus &
    Giroux, 1967] 214 p. PZ4.P7674Fl [TR: PS3566.O47]

      1150
    Redding, Jay Saunders. Stranger and alone, a novel. New York,
    Harcourt, Brace [1950] 308 p. PZ3.R246533St [TR: PS3535.E2233]

      1151
    Rogers, Joel A. She walks in beauty. Los Angeles, Western
    Publishers, 1963. 316 p. PZ4.R727Sh

      1152
    Rollins, Bryant. Danger song. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday,
    1967. 280 p. PZ4.R753Dan

      1153
    Savoy, Willard W. Alien land. New York, E. P. Dutton, 1949. 320
    p. PZ3.S2695Al

      1153a
    Schuyler, George S. Black no more; being an account of the
    strange and wonderful workings of science in the land of the
    free, A.D. 1933-1940. New York, Macaulay Co. [c1931] 250 p.
    PZ3.S3972Bl [TR: PS3537.C76]

      1154
    Smith, William G. Anger at innocence. New York, Farrar, Straus
    [1950] 300 p. [PZ3.S6638An] [TR: PS3537.M8685A82 1950]

      1155
    Smith, William G. Last of the conquerors. New York, Farrar,
    Straus, 1948. 262 p. PZ3.S6638Las

      1156
    Smith, William G. The stone face, a novel. New York, Farrar,
    Straus [1963] 213 p. PZ3.S6638St

      1157
    Thurman, Wallace. The blacker the berry; a novel of Negro life.
    New York, Macaulay Co., 1929. 262 p. PZ3.T4258Bl [TR:
    PS3539.H957]

      1158
    Thurman, Wallace. Infants of the spring. New York, Macaulay Co.
    [c1932] 284 p. PZ3.T4258In [TR: PS3539.H957]

      1158a
    Thurman, Wallace, _and_ Abraham L. Furman. The interne. New
    York, Macaulay Co. [c1932] 252 p. PZ3.T4258Int

      1159
    Toomer, Jean. Cane. With a foreword by Waldo Frank. New York,
    University Place Press [1967, c1951] 239 p. PZ3.T6184Can5 [TR:
    PS3539.O478]
      First published in 1923.
      Prose interspersed with poetry.

      1160
    Turpin, Waters E. O Canaan! A novel. New York, Doubleday, Doran,
    1939. 311 p. PZ3.T867O [TR: PS3539.U875]

      1161
    Turpin, Waters E. The rootless. New York, Vantage Press [1957]
    340 p. PZ3.T867Ro [TR: PS3539.U875]

      1162
    Turpin, Waters E. These low grounds. New York, Harper, 1937. 344
    p. PZ3.T867Th  [TR: PS3539.U875]

      1163
    Van Dyke, Henry. Blood of strawberries. New York, Farrar, Straus
    and Giroux [1969] 277 p. PZ4.V24Bl [TR: PS3572.A43]

      1164
    Van Dyke, Henry. Ladies of the Rachmaninoff eyes. New York,
    Farrar, Straus and Giroux [1965] 214 p. PZ4.V24Lad [TR:
    PS3572.A43]

      1165
    Walker, Margaret. Jubilee. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1966. 497
    p. map. PZ4.W1814Ju [TR: PS3545.A517]

      1166
    Walrond, Eric. Tropic death. New York, Boni & Liveright, 1926.
    282 p. PZ3.W166Tr [TR: PS3545.A5826]
      Contents.—Drought.—Panama gold.—The yellow one.—The wharf
      rats.—The palm porch.—Subjection.—The beach pin.—The white
      snake.—The vampire bat.—Tropic death.

      1167
    Ward, Thomas P. The right to live. New York, Pageant Press
    [1953] 249 p. PZ7.W216Ri

      1168
    Webb, Frank J. The Garies and their friends. New York, Arno
    Press, 1969. 392 p. (Afro-American culture series)
    PZ3.W382332Ga5 [TR: PS3157.W62]
      The American Negro, his history and literature.
      Reprint of the 1857 ed.

      1169
    West, Dorothy. The living is easy. Boston, Houghton, Mifflin,
    1948. 347 p. PZ3.W5174Li [TR: PS3545.E82794]

      1170
    White, Walter F. The fire in the flint. New York, Knopf, 1924.
    300 p. PZ3.W5857Fi

      1171
    White, Walter F. Flight. New York, Knopf, 1926. 300 p.
    PZ3.W5857Fl [TR: PS3545.H6165]

      1172
    Williams, Chancellor. Have you been to the river? A novel. New
    York, Exposition Press [1952] 256 p. PZ3.W67143Hav

      1173
    Williams, John A. The man who cried I am; a novel. Boston,
    Little, Brown [1967] 403 p. PZ4.W72624Man [TR: PS3573.I4495]

      1174
    Williams, John A. Night song. New York, Farrar, Straus and
    Cudahy [1961] 219 p. PZ4.W72624Ni [TR: PS3573.I4495 Williams,
    John Alfred]

      1175
    Williams, John A. Sissie. New York, Farrar, Straus and Cudahy
    [1963] 277 p. PZ4.W72624Si [TR: PS3573.I4495 Williams, John
    Alfred]

      1176
    Wright, Charles S. The messenger. New York, Farrar, Straus
    [1963] 217 p. PZ4.W9477Me [TR: PS3573.R532 Wright, Charles]

      1177
    Wright, Charles S. The wig, a mirror image. New York, Farrar,
    Straus and Giroux [1966] 179 p. PZ4.W9477Wi [TR: PS3573.R532
    Wright, Charles]

      1178
    Wright, Richard. Eight men. Cleveland, World Pub. Co. [1961] 250
    p. PZ3.W9352Ei [TR: PS3545.R815]
      Short stories.

      1179
    Wright, Richard. Lawd today. New York, Walker [1963] 189 p.
    PZ3.W9352Law [TR: PS3545.R815]

      1180
    Wright, Richard. The long dream, a novel. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1958. 384 p. PZ3.W9352Lo [TR: PS3545.R815]

      1181
    Wright, Richard. Native son. New York, Harper, 1940. 359 p.
    PZ3.W9352Nat [TR: PS3545.R815]

      1182
    Wright, Richard. The outsider. New York, Harper [1953] 450 p.
    PZ3.W9352Ou [TR: PS3545.R815]

      1183
    Wright, Richard. Uncle Tom’s children, five long stories. New
    York, Harper [c1938] xxx, 384 p. PZ3.W935Un2 [TR: PS3545.R815]
      Contents.—The ethics of living Jim Crow; an autobiographical
      sketch.—Big boy leaves home.—Down by the riverside.—Long black
      song.—Fire and cloud.—Bright and morning star.

      1184
    Yerby, Frank. Captain Rebel. New York, Dial Press [1956] 343 p.
    PZ3.Y415Cap [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1185
    Yerby, Frank. The devil’s laughter. New York, Dial Press, 1953.
    376 p. PZ3.Y415De [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1186
    Yerby, Frank. Fairoaks, a novel. New York, Dial Press [1957] 405
    p. PZ3.Y415Fai [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1187
    Yerby, Frank. Floodtide. New York, Dial Press, 1950. 342 p.
    PZ3.Y415Fl [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1188
    Yerby, Frank. The Foxes of Harrow. New York, Dial Press, 1946.
    534 p. PZ3.Y415Fo [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1189
    Yerby, Frank. The Garfield honor. New York, Dial Press, 1961.
    347 p. PZ3.Y415Gar [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1190
    Yerby, Frank. Gillian. New York, Dial Press, 1960. 346 p.
    PZ3.Y415Gi [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1191
    Yerby, Frank. The golden hawk. New York, Dial Press, 1948. 346
    p. map. PZ3.Y415Go [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1192
    Yerby, Frank. Griffin’s Way, a novel. New York, Dial Press,
    1962. 345 p. PZ3.Y415Gr [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1193
    Yerby, Frank. Jarrett’s Jade, a novel. New York, Dial Press,
    1959. 342 p. PZ3.Y415Jar [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1194
    Yerby, Frank. The old gods laugh, a modern romance. New York,
    Dial Press, 1964. 408 p. PZ3.Y415Ol [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1195
    Yerby, Frank. Pride’s castle. New York, Dial Press, 1949. 382 p.
    PZ3.Y415Pr [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1196
    Yerby, Frank. The serpent and the staff. New York, Dial Press,
    1958. 377 p. PZ3.Y415Se [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1197
    Yerby, Frank. The treasure of Pleasant Valley. New York, Dial
    Press, 1955. 348 p. PZ3.Y415Tr [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1198
    Yerby, Frank. The vixens, a novel. New York, Dial Press, 1947.
    347 p. PZ3.Y415Vi [TR: PS3547.E65]

      1199
    Yerby, Frank. A woman called Fancy. New York, Dial Press, 1951.
    340 p. PZ3.Y415Wo [TR: PS3547.E65]




23—LITERATURE—Humor


      1200
    Gregory, Dick. From the back of the bus. Photographs by Jerry
    Yulsman. Introduction by Hugh M. Hefner. Edited by Bob Orden.
    New York, Dutton, 1962. 125 p. illus. PN6231.S485G7

      1201
    Gregory, Dick. What’s happening? Photos. by Jerry Yulsman. New
    York, Dutton, 1965. 125 p. illus. PN6231.N5G68

      1202
    Hughes, Langston, _ed._ The book of Negro humor. New York, Dodd,
    Mead [1966] 265 p. PN6231.N5H8

      1203
    Sterling, Philip, _ed._ Laughing on the outside; the intelligent
    white reader’s guide to Negro tales and humor. Introductory
    essay by Saunders Redding. Cartoons by Ollie Harrington. New
    York, Grosset & Dunlap [1965] 254 p. illus. PN6231.N5S7
      Bibliography: p. [251]-254.

      1204
    That passing laughter; stories of the Southland, written by
    those who lived it. Drawings by Harry Maddox. Photography by
    Gertrude Gibson [and] Mattie Lou Stribling. Portrait by Marie
    Hull. Birmingham, Ala., Southern University Press, c1966. 140 p.
    illus. PN6231.N5T5




24—LITERATURE—Plays


      1205
    Baldwin, James. The amen corner; a play. New York, Dial Press,
    1968. xvii, 91 p. PS3552.A45A8

      1206
    Baldwin, James. Blues for Mister Charlie, a play. New York, Dial
    Press, 1964. xv, 121 p. PS3552.A45B5

      1207
    Connelly, Marcus C. The green pastures, a fable, suggested by
    Roark Bradford’s southern sketches, "Ol’ man Adam an’ his
    chillun." New York, Farrar & Rinehart [c1929] xvi, 173 p.
    PS3505.O4814G7 1929 [TR: Connelly, Marc]
      In dramatic form, with cast of characters as presented at the
      Mansfield Theatre, New York, 1930.
      Attempts "to present certain aspects of a living religion in
      the terms of its believers ... thousands of Negroes in the
      deep South."—p. xv.

      1208
    Cotter, Joseph S. Caleb, the degenerate, a play in four acts; a
    study of the types, customs, and needs of the American Negro.
    Louisville, Ky., Bradley & Gilbert Co., 1903. 57 p. port.
    PS3505.O862C3 1903

      1209
    Couch, William, _comp._ New black playwrights, an anthology.
    Baton Rouge, Louisiana State University Press [1968] xxiii, 258
    p. PS634.C684

      1210
    Davis, Ossie. Purlie victorious; a comedy in three acts. New
    York, S. French [c1961] 90 p. PS3507.A7444P8

      1211
    Duberman, Martin B. In white America, a documentary play.
    Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1964. 112 p. PS3554.U25I5

      1212
    D’Usseau, Arnaud, _and_ James Gow. Deep are the roots. New York,
    Scribner, 1946. xxvi, 205 p. plates. PS3507.U925D4

      1213
    Edmonds, Randolph. The land of cotton, and other plays.
    Washington, Associated Publishers [c1942] 267 p. PS3509.D56L3
      Contents.—The land of cotton.—Gangsters over Harlem.—Yellow
      death.—Silas Brown.—The High court of Historia.

      1214
    Edmonds, Randolph. Shades and shadows. Boston, Meador Pub. Co.,
    1930. 171 p. PS3509.D56S5 1930
      Contents.—The devil’s price.—Hewers of wool.—Shades and
      shadows.—Everyman’s land.—The tribal chief.—The phantom
      treasure.

      1215
    Edmonds, Randolph. Six plays for a Negro theatre. Foreword by
    Frederick H. Koch. Boston, W. H. Baker Co. [c1934] 155 p.
    PS3509.D56S6 1934
      Contents.—Bad man.—Old man Pete.—Nat
      Turner.—Breeders.—Bleeding hearts.—The new window.

      1216
    Grimke, Angelina W. Rachel, a play in three acts. Boston, The
    Cornhill Co. [c1920] 96 p. PS3513.R744R3 1920

      1217
    Hansberry, Lorraine. A raisin in the sun; a drama in three acts.
    New York, Random House [1959] 142 p. illus. (A Random House
    play) PS3515.A515R3

      1218
    Heyward, Dorothy H. K., _and_ DuBose Heyward. Mamba’s daughters,
    a
    play. Dramatized from the novel Mamba’s daughters by Du Bose
    Heyward. New York, Farrar & Rinehart [c1939] 182 p. plates.
    PS3515.E97M3 1939

      1219
    Hughes, Langston. Five plays. Edited with an introduction by
    Webster Smalley. Bloomington, Indiana University Press [1963]
    258 p. PS3515.U274A19 1963
      Contents.—Mulatto.—Soul gone home.—Little Ham.—Simply
      heavenly.—Tambourines to glory.

      1220
    Jones, LeRoi. Dutchman and The slave, two plays. New York,
    Morrow, 1964. 88 p. [PS3519.O4545D8] [TR:  PS3552.A583D8 Baraka,
    Imamu Amiri]

      1221
    Locke, Alain L., _and_ Montgomery Gregory, _eds._ Plays of Negro
    life; a source-book of native American drama. Decorations and
    illustrations by Aaron Douglas. New York, Harper, 1927. 430 p.
    illus., plates. PS627.N4L6
      "Bibliography of Negro drama": p. 424-430.

      1222
    Peters, Paul, _and_ George Sklar. Stevedore, a play in three
    acts. New York, Covici, Friede [c1934] 123 p. PS3531.E826S7 1934

      1223
    Richardson, Willis, _comp._ Plays and pageants from the life of
    the Negro. Washington, Associated Publishers [c1930] 373 p.
    illus., plates. PS627.N4R5
      Contents.—Plays: Sacrifice, by Thelma M. Duncan. Antar of
      Araby, by Maud Cuney-Hare. Ti Yette, by John Matheus. Graven
      images, by May Miller. Riding the goat, by May Miller. The
      black horseman, by Willis Richardson. The king’s dilemma, by
      Willis Richardson. The house of sham, by Willis
      Richardson.—Pageants: Two races, by Inez M. Burke. Out of the
      dark, by Dorothy C. Guinn. The light of the women, by Frances
      Gunner. Ethiopia at the bar of justice, by Edward J. McCoo.

      1224
    Richardson, Willis, _and_ May Miller, _eds._ Negro history in
    thirteen plays. Washington, Associated Publishers [c1935] 333 p.
    PS627.N4R47

      1225
    Sackler, Howard O. The great white hope. New York, Dial Press,
    1968. 264 p. PS3537.A156G7
      In 1908, Jack Johnson became the first Negro heavyweight
      champion of the world. This is an epic drama based on his
      life.

      1226
    Torrence, Frederic R. Granny Maumee, The rider of dreams, Simon
    the Cyrenian; plays for a Negro theater. New York, Macmillan,
    1917. 111 p. PS3539.O63G7 1917

      1227
    Wright, Richard. Native son (the biography of a young American),
    a play in ten scenes by Paul Green and Richard Wright, from the
    novel by Richard Wright. A Mercury production by Orson Welles,
    presented by Orson Welles and John Houseman. New York, Harper
    [c1941] 148 p. front. PS3545.R815N25
      Includes songs with music.




25—LITERATURE—Poetry


      1228
    Adoff, Arnold, _comp._ I am the darker brother; an anthology of
    modern poems by Negro Americans. Drawings by Benny Andrews.
    Foreword by Charlemae Rollins. New York, Macmillan [1968] 128 p.
    illus. PS591.N4A65

      1229
    Bontemps, Arna W., _ed._ American Negro poetry. New York, Hill
    and Wang [1963] 197 p. PS591.N4B58

      1230
    Bontemps, Arna W., _comp._ Golden slippers, an anthology of
    Negro poetry for young readers. With drawings by Henrietta Bruce
    Sharon. New York, Harper [c1941] 220 p. illus., plates.
    PS591.N4B6
      "Biographies": p. 200-215.

      1231
    Braithwaite, William S. B. The house of falling leaves, with
    other poems. Boston, J. W. Luce, 1908. 112 p. PS3503.R246H7 1908
      Partly reprinted from various periodicals.

      1232
    Braithwaite, William S. B. Lyrics of life and love. Boston, H.
    B. Turner, 1904. 80 p. port. PS3503.R246L8 1904

      1233
    Braithwaite, William S. B. Selected poems. New York,
    Coward-McCann [1948] 96 p. PS3503.R246A6 1948 [TR: Braithwaite,
    William Stanley]

      1234
    Brewer, John Mason, _ed._ Heralding dawn; an anthology of verse,
    selected and edited, with a historical summary on the Texas
    Negroes’ verse-making, by J. Mason Brewer, and with a preface by
    Henry Smith. [Dallas, June Thomason, Print., c1936] 7 p. l., 45
    p. ports. PS591.N4B65
      Includes biographical sketches of the authors.
      "Bibliography and acknowledgment": 3d prelim. leaf.

      1235
    Brooks, Gwendolyn. Annie Allen. [Poems]. New York, Harper [1949]
    60 p. port. PS3503.R7244A7

      1236
    Brooks, Gwendolyn. In the Mecca; poems. New York, Harper & Row
    [1968] 54 p. PS3503.R7244I5

      1237
    Brown, Sterling A. Southern road, poems; drawings by E. Simms
    Campbell. New York, Harcourt, Brace [c1932] xv, 135 p. plates.
    PS3503.R833S6 1932

      1238
    Charters, Samuel B. The poetry of the blues. With photographs by
    Ann Charters. New York, Oak Publications [1963] 111 p. illus.
    PS591.N4C4

      1239
    Cullen, Countee. The black Christ & other poems. With
    decorations by Charles Cullen. New York, Harper, 1929. 110 p.
    illus., plates. PS3505.U287B6 1929

      1240
    Cullen, Countee, _ed._ Caroling dusk, an anthology of verse by
    Negro poets. Decorations by Aaron Douglas. New York, Harper,
    1927. xxii, 237 p. PS591.N4C8

      1241
    Cullen, Countee. Color. New York, Harper, 1925. xvii, 108 p.
    PS3505.U287C6 1925

      1242
    Cullen, Countee. Copper sun. With decorations by Charles Cullen.
    New York, Harper, 1927. 89 p. illus. PS3505.U287C65 1927

      1243
    Cullen, Countee. On these I stand; an anthology of the best
    poems of Countee Cullen. Selected by himself and including six
    new poems never before published. New York, Harper [1947] 197 p.
    PS3505.U287A6 1947

      1244
    Cuney, Waring, Langston Hughes, _and_ Bruce M. Wright, _eds._
    Lincoln University poets; centennial anthology [1854-1954].
    Foreword by Horace Mann Bond; introduction by J. Saunders
    Redding. New York, Fine Editions Press [1954] 72 p. PS591.N4C84

      1245
    Dodson, Owen. Powerful long ladder. New York, Farrar, Straus,
    1946. 103 p. PS3507.O364P6

      1246
    Dunbar, Paul L. The complete poems of Paul Laurence Dunbar, with
    the introduction to "Lyrics of lowly life," by W. D. Howells.
    New York, Dodd, Mead, 1913. xxxii, 289 p. port. PS1556.A1 1913

      1247
    Dunbar, Paul L. Lyrics of lowly life. New York, Arno Press,
    1969. xx, 208 p. (The American Negro, his history and
    literature) PS1556.L6 1969
      Afro-American culture series.
      Reprint of the 1899 ed.

      1248
    Dunbar, Paul L. Oak and ivy. Dayton, Ohio, Press of United
    Brethren Pub. House, 1893. 62 p. DHU
      First ed. of Dunbar’s first work; includes 13 poems not in
      _The Complete Poems_ (1913).

      1249
    Hayden, Robert E. A ballad of remembrance. London, P. Breman,
    1962. 72 p. (Heritage series, v. 1) PS3515.A9363B3

      1250
    Hayden, Robert E. Heart-shape in the dust; poems. Detroit,
    Falcon Press [c1940] 63 p. PS3515.A9363H4 1940

      1251
    Hayden, Robert E., _comp._ Kaleidoscope; poems by American Negro
    poets, edited and with an introduction by Robert Hayden. New
    York, Harcourt, Brace & World [1967] xxiv, 231 p. ports.
    (Curriculum-related books) PS591.N4H3

      1252
    Hayden, Robert E. Selected poems. New York, October House [1966]
    79 p. PS3515.A9363A6 1966 [TR: Hayden, Robert Earl]

      1253
    Hughes, Langston. Fields of wonder. New York, Knopf, 1947. 114
    p. PS3515.U274F45

      1254
    Hughes, Langston. Fine clothes to the Jew. New York, Knopf,
    1927. 89 p. PS3515.U274F5 1927

      1255
    Hughes, Langston. New Negro poets U.S.A. Foreword by Gwendolyn
    Brooks. Bloomington, Indiana University Press [1964] 127 p.
    PS591.N4H8

      1256
    Hughes, Langston. One-way ticket [poems]; illustrations by Jacob
    Lawrence. New York, Knopf, 1949 [c1948] xvii, 136 p. illus.
    PS3515.U274O5

      1257
    Hughes, Langston. The panther & the lash; poems of our times.
    New York, Knopf, 1967. 101 p. PS3515.U274P3

      1258
    Hughes, Langston, _and_ Arna W. Bontemps, _eds._ The poetry of
    the Negro, 1746-1949; an anthology. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1949. xviii, 429 p. PN6109.7.H8

      1259
    Hughes, Langston. Selected poems. Drawings by E. McKnight
    Kauffer. New York, Knopf, 1959. 297 p. illus. PS3515.U274A6 1959

      1260
    Hughes, Langston. Shakespeare in Harlem. With drawings by E.
    McKnight Kauffer. New York, Knopf, 1942. 124 p. illus.
    PS3515.U274S5
      "A book of light verse."—4th prelim. leaf.

      1261
    Hughes, Langston. The weary blues. With an introduction by Carl
    Van Vechten. New York, Knopf, 1926. 109 p. PS3515.U274W4 1926

      1262
    Johnson, Georgia D. An autumn love cycle. New York, H. Vinal,
    1928. xix, 70 p. front. PS3519.O253A8 1928

      1263
    Johnson, Georgia D. The heart of a woman, and other poems. With
    an introduction by William Stanley Braithwaite. Boston, Cornhill
    Co., 1918. 62 p. [PS3601.J6H4 1918] [TR: PS3519.O253H4 1918]

      1264
    Johnson, James W., _ed._ The book of American Negro poetry,
    chosen and edited, with an essay on the Negro’s creative genius.
    New York, Harcourt, Brace [c1931] 300 p. music. PS591.N4J6 1931
      "Revised edition."
      "Books suggested for collateral reading": p. 295-296.

      1265
    Johnson, James W. Fifty years & other poems. With an
    introduction by Brander Matthews. Boston, Cornhill Co. [c1917]
    xiv, 92 p. PS3519.O2625F5
      Reprinted in part from various periodicals.

      1266
    Johnson, James W. God’s trombones; seven Negro sermons in verse.
    Drawings by Aaron Douglas, lettering by C. B. Falls. New York,
    Viking Press, 1927. 56 p. plates. PS3519.O2625G6 1927

      1267
    Jones, LeRoi. The dead lecturer; poems. New York, Grove Press
    [1964] 79 p. [PS3519.O4545D4] [TR: PS3552.A583D4 Baraka, Imamu
    Amiri]

      1268
    Kerlin, Robert T. Negro poets and their poems. 2d ed., rev. and
    enl. Washington, Associated Publishers [c1935] xxi, 342 p.
    illus., ports. PS591.N4K4 1935
      "Index of authors, with biographical and bibliographical
      notes": p. 323-335.

      1269
    [Lanusse, Armand], _comp._ Creole voices; poems in French by
    free men of color, first published in 1845, edited by Edward
    Maceo Coleman. With a foreword by H. Carrington Lancaster. A
    Centennial ed. Washington, Associated Publishers, 1945. xlvi,
    130 p. PQ3937.L8L32
      This anthology, compiled by Armand Lanusse, who was also one
      of the principal contributors, was originally published in New
      Orleans under title: _Les cenelles, choix de poésies
      indigènes._
      Present edition includes poems of V. E. Rillieux and P. A.
      Desdunes, two later poets (p. [109]-128).

      1270
    Major, Clarence, _comp._ The new black poetry. New York,
    International Publishers [1969] 156 p. PS591.N4M3

      1271
    Murphy, Beatrice M., _ed._ Ebony rhythm; an anthology of
    contemporary Negro verse. Freeport, N.Y., Books for Libraries
    Press [1968, c1948] 162 p. (Granger index reprint series)
    PS591.N4M76 1968

      1272
    Murphy, Beatrice M., _ed._ Negro voices; illustrations by
    Clifton Thompson Hill. New York, H. Harrison [c1938] 173 p.
    illus. PS591.N4M8
      At head of title: An anthology of contemporary verse.

      1273
    Pipes, James. Ziba. With decorations by Edith Mahier. Norman,
    University of Oklahoma Press, 1943. 188 p. illus. PS3531.I79Z3

      1274
    Pool, Rosey E., _ed._ Beyond the blues, new poems by American
    Negroes. Lympne, Kent, Hand and Flower Press [1962] 188 p.
    PS591.N4P6
      Bibliography: p. 186-188.

      1275
    Rollins, Charlemae H., _comp._ Christmas gif’; an anthology of
    Christmas poems, songs, and stories, written by and about
    Negroes. Line drawings by Tom O’Sullivan. Book design by Stan
    Williamson. Chicago, Follett Pub. Co. [1963] 119 p. illus.
    PS509.C56R6

      1276
    Tolson, Melvin B. Harlem gallery. With an introduction by Karl
    Shapiro. Book 1. The curator. New York, Twayne [1965] 173 p.
    PS3539.O334H3

      1277
    Tolson, Melvin B. Libretto for the Republic of Liberia. New
    York, Twayne Publishers [1953] 1 v. (unpaged) PS3539.O334L5 [TR:
    (Rare Bk Coll)]

      1278
    Tolson, Melvin B. Rendezvous with America. New York, Dodd, Mead,
    1944. 121 p. PS3539.O334R4

      1279
    Turner, Lucy M. ’Bout cullud folkses; poems. New York, H.
    Harrison [1938] 64 p. [PS3601.T8B6 1938] [TR: PS3539.U8536B6
    1938]

      1280
    Walker, Margaret. For my people. With a foreword by Stephen
    Vincent Benét. New Haven, Yale University Press, 1942. 58 p.
    (The Yale series of younger poets, [41]) PS3545.A517F6

      1281
    Wegelin, Oscar. Jupiter Hammon, American Negro poet; selections
    from his writings and a bibliography; with five facsimiles. New
    York, Ninety-nine copies printed for C. F. Heartman, 1915. 51 p.
    facsims., front. (Heartman’s historical series, no. 13)
    PS767.H15Z8
      "No. 90 of 91 copies printed on Alexandra Japan paper."

      1282
    Wheatley, Phillis. Poems. Edited, with an introduction, by
    Julian D. Mason, Jr. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina
    Press, 1966. lviii, 113 p. facsims., port. PS866.W5 1966

      1283
    Wheatley, Phillis. Poems and letters; first collected edition,
    ed. by Chas. Fred. Heartman; with an appreciation by Arthur A.
    Schomburg. New York, C. F. Heartman [1915] 111 p. port.
    (Heartman’s historical series, no. 8) PS866.W5 1915
      No. 20 of 350 copies printed on Ben Day paper.

      1284
    Wheatley, Phillis. Poems on various subjects, religious and
    moral. London, Printed for A. Bell, Bookseller, Aldgate; and
    sold by Messrs. Cox and Berry, King-Street, Boston, 1773. 124 p.
    port. PS866.W5 1773

      1284a
    White, Newman Ivey, _and_ Walter C. Jackson, _eds._ An anthology
    of verse by American Negroes, edited with a critical
    introduction, biographical sketches of the authors, and
    bibliographical notes. With an introduction by James Hardy
    Dillard. Durham, N.C., Trinity College Press, 1924. 250 p.
    (Trinity College publications) PS591.N4W5
      "Bibliographical and critical notes": p. 214-237.

      1285
    Wilson, Joseph T. Voice of a new race. Original selections of
    poems, with a trilogy and oration. Hampton, Va., Normal School
    Steam Press, 1882. 43 p. PS3334.W58




26—MEDICINE AND HEALTH


      1286
    Cobb, William Montague. The first Negro medical society; a
    history of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of the District of
    Columbia, 1884-1939. Washington, Associated Publishers, 1939.
    159 p. R15.M573C6
      "Publications by society and members": p. 104-119.
      Bibliography: p. 135.

      1287
    Cobb, William Montague. Medical care and the plight of the
    Negro. New York, National Assn. for the Advancement of Colored
    People, 1947. 38 p. illus. E185.88.C7
      "Literature cited": p. 37-38.

      1288
    Cobb, William Montague. Progress and portents for the Negro in
    medicine. New York, National Assn. for the Advancement of
    Colored People, 1948. 53 p. illus., map, ports. E185.82.C6
      "Literature cited": p. 46-47.

      1289
    Cornely, Paul B., _and_ Stanley K. Bigman. Cultural
    considerations in changing health attitudes. [Washington] 1961.
    3 v. (185 leaves). tables. RA448.W3C6
      "Research grant 5357 (C1, C2). Division of General Medical
      Sciences. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Public Health
      Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1290
    Corwin, Edward H. L., _and_ Gertrude E. Sturges. Opportunities
    for the medical education of Negroes. With an introduction by
    Dr. Walter L. Niles and a foreword by Walter White. New York,
    Scribner, 1936. xv, 293 p. tables. RA982.N5H35
      Report of a biracial group of medical experts and laymen on
      conditions at Harlem Hospital.

      1291
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ The health and physique of the
    Negro American. Report of a social study made under the
    direction of Atlanta University; together with the Proceedings
    of the Eleventh Conference for the Study of the Negro Problems,
    held at Atlanta University, on May the 29th, 1906. Atlanta,
    Atlanta University Press, 1906. 112 p. plates, tables. (Atlanta
    University publications, no. 11) E185.5.A88 no. 11
      "Bibliography of Negro health and physique": p. [6]-13.

      1292
    Dummett, Clifton O., _ed._ The growth and development of the
    Negro in dentistry in the United States. [Chicago?] National
    Dental Association [1952] 124 p. E185.82.D8

      1293
    Grier, William H., _and_ Price M. Cobbs. Black rage. Foreword by
    Fred R. Harris. New York, Basic Books [1968] 213 p. E185.625.G68
      The Negro authors indicate that rioting is indicative of Negro
      recovery rather than ill health.

      1294
    Grossack, Martin M., _ed._ Mental health and segregation; a
    selection of papers and some book chapters by David P. Ausubel
    [and others]. New York, Springer Pub. Co. [c1963] 247 p. tables.
    E185.625.G7
      Bibliography: p. 231-237.

      1295
    Joint Health Education Committee, _Nashville_. Rural Negro
    health; a report on a five-year experiment in health education
    in Tennessee, by Michael J. Bent, M.D., and Ellen F. Greene,
    M.A., for the Joint Health Education Committee. Nashville,
    Julius Rosenwald Fund, 1937. 85 p. diagrs. RA426.J73
      "General references": p. 79-83.

      1296
    Kardiner, Abram, _and_ Lionel Ovesey. The mark of oppression;
    explorations in the personality of the American Negro. With the
    assistance of William Goldfarb [and others]. Cleveland, World
    Pub. Co. [1962, c1951] 396 p. illus. (Meridian Books, M141)
    E185.625.K3 1962

      1297
    Karon, Bertram P. The Negro personality; a rigorous
    investigation of the effects of culture. Foreword by Silvan S.
    Tomkins. New York, Springer Pub. Co., 1958. 184 p. illus.
    E185.625.K35
      Bibliography: p. 176-177.

      1298
    Kenney, John A. The Negro in medicine. [Tuskegee Institute,
    Ala., Printed by the Tuskegee Institute Press, c1912] 60 p.
    plates (part fold.), ports. E185.82.K36

      1299
    Lott, Albert J., _and_ Bernice E. Lott. Negro and white youth; a
    psychological study in a border-state community. New York, Holt,
    Rinehart and Winston [1963] 236 p. BF731.L6
      Includes bibliographies.

      1300
    Lynk, Miles V. Sixty years of medicine; or, The life and times
    of Dr. Miles V. Lynk, an autobiography. Memphis, Twentieth
    Century Press, c1951. 125 p. ports. R154.L96A3

      1301
    Malzberg, Benjamin. Statistical data for the study of mental
    disease among Negroes in New York State, 1949-1951. Albany,
    1959. 405 p. tables. [RC444.N4M3]
      "This study is reprinted from _Mental Hygiene_, volume 43, no.
      3, July 1959."

      1302
    Morais, Herbert M. The history of the Negro in medicine. New
    York, Publishers Co. [1967] xiv, 317 p. illus., facsims., ports.
    (International library of Negro life and history) R695.M6
      Published under the auspices of the Association for the Study
      of Negro Life and History.
      Bibliography: p. 281-304.

      1303
    National Medical Fellowships. Opportunities for Negroes in
    medicine. Chicago, 1959. 29 p. E185.82.N38

      1304
    Negro Health Survey, _Pittsburgh_. Tuberculosis and the Negro in
    Pittsburgh; a report of the Negro health survey, by Elsie
    Witchen, director, Negro Health Survey. [Pittsburgh]
    Tuberculosis League of Pittsburgh, 1934. 120 p. diagrs., maps,
    plates, tables. RC313.A57N4

      1305
    Parker, Seymour, _and_ Robert J. Kleiner. Mental illness in the
    urban Negro community. New York, Free Press [c1966] xiv, 408 p.
    illus. RC451.5.N4P35
      "Financial assistance received from the National Institutes of
      Health (grant numbers M-3047, M-5661, and MH-07494-01) and
      from the Pennsylvania Mental Research Foundation."
      Bibliography: p. 349-362.

      1306
    Pettigrew, Thomas F. A profile of the Negro American. Princeton,
    Van Nostrand [1964] xiv, 250 p. illus. E185.625.P4
      Bibliography: p. 202-235.

      1307
    Peyton, Thomas R. Quest for dignity; an autobiography of a Negro
    doctor. [Rev. reprinting] Los Angeles, Publishers Western, 1963
    [c1950] 160 p. illus. R154.P49A3 1963

      1308
    Reitzes, Dietrich C. Negroes and medicine. Cambridge, Published
    for the Commonwealth Fund by Harvard University Press, 1958. 400
    p. illus. E185.82.R46

      1309
    Rohrer, John H., _and_ Munro S. Edmonson, _eds._ The eighth
    generation: cultures and personalities of New Orleans Negroes.
    Co-authors: Harold Lief, Daniel Thompson [and] William Thompson.
    New York, Harper [1960] 346 p. diagrs., tables. E185.625.R6
      "This volume reports a research project carried out during the
      years 1953-1956 at the Urban Life Research Institute of Tulane
      University.... The responsibility for its direction rested
      with Dr. John H. Rohrer."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1310
    Spencer, Gerald A. Cosmetology in the Negro: a guide to its
    problems. [New York, Arlain Print. Co., 1944] 127 p. illus.
    RL71.S65
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1311
    Spencer, Gerald A. Medical symphony, a study of the
    contributions of the Negro to medical progress in New York. [New
    York, c1947] 120 p. ports. R292.N7S63
      "References": p. 9.




27—MILITARY Service


      1312
    Aptheker, Herbert. The Negro in the Civil War. New York,
    International Publishers [c1938] 48 p. E453.A67
      "Suggested readings": p. 47-48.

      1313
    Brown, Earl L., _and_ George R. Leighton. The Negro and the war.
    [New York, Public Affairs Committee] 1942. 32 p. diagrs. (Public
    affairs pamphlets, no. 71) E185.61.B877
      "For further reading": p. 32.

      1314
    Brown, William W. The Negro in the American rebellion, his
    heroism and his fidelity. Boston, Lee & Shepard, 1867. xvi, 380
    p. E540.N3B8

      1315
    Cashin, Herschel V., _and others_. Under fire. With the Tenth
    U.S. Cavalry. Being a brief, comprehensive review of the Negro’s
    participation in the wars of the United States. With
    introduction by Major-General Joseph Wheeler. Illustrated with
    over one hundred fine engravings from original photographs. New
    York, F. T. Neely [c1899] xv, 361 p. illus., plates, ports.
    [E725.5.C33] [TR: E725.45 10th]
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      1316
    Cornish, Dudley T. The sable arm; Negro troops in the Union
    Army, 1861-1865. New York, W. W. Norton [1966, c1956] 337 p.
    (The Norton library, N334) E540.N3C77 1966
      Bibliography: p. 316-332.

      1317
    Emilio, Luis F. History of the Fifty-fourth Regiment of
    Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, 1863-1865. Boston, Boston Book
    Co., 1891 xvi, 410 p. maps (part fold.), ports. E513.5 54th
      Cover title: _A Brave Black Regiment._
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      1318
    Francis, Charles E. The Tuskegee airmen; the story of the Negro
    in the U.S. Air Force. Boston, Bruce Humphries [1956, c1955] 225
    p. illus. D810.N4F76

      1319
    Heywood, Chester D. Negro combat troops in the World War; the
    story of the 371st Infantry. With maps, photographs and
    illustrations; pen and ink drawings by D. Lester Dickson.
    Worcester, Mass., Commonwealth Press [c1928] 310 p. illus., 2
    fold. maps (in pocket) D570.33 371st.H4

      1320
    Higginson, Thomas W. Army life in a black regiment. With an
    introduction by Howard Mumford Jones. [East Lansing] Michigan
    State University Press, 1960 [i.e. 1961] 235 p. E492.94 33d H5
    1961
      First published in 1870.

      1321
    Johns Hopkins University. _Operations Research Office._
    Utilization of Negro manpower in the Army: a 1951 study. A team
    research study by staff members, consultants, and subcontractors
    of the Operations Research Office of the Johns Hopkins
    University. Alfred H. Hausrath, project director. McLean, Va.,
    Research Analysis Corp., 1967. 1 v. (various pagings) illus.
    E185.63.J6
      A condensed and unclassified ed. of a 7-vol. draft report
      (1951)
      based on a study conducted in Korea and the U.S. as Project
      CLEAR.
      "References": p. R1-R7.

      1322
    Leckie, William H. The buffalo soldiers; a narrative of the
    Negro cavalry in the West. Norman, University of Oklahoma Press
    [1967] xiv, 290 p. illus., maps, ports. UA31 10th.L4
      Bibliography: p. 262-276.

      1323
    Lee, Irvin H. Negro Medal of Honor men. New York, Dodd, Mead
    [1967] 139 p. illus., ports. UB433.L4
      Bibliography: p. 131-132.

      1324
    Lee, Ulysses G. The employment of Negro troops. Washington,
    Office of the Chief of Military History, United States Army;
    [for sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off.] 1966.
    xix, 740 p. illus., maps (part fold., part col.), ports. (United
    States Army in World War II: Special studies) D810.N4L4
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1325
    McConnell, Roland C. Negro troops of antebellum Louisiana; a
    history of the Battalion of Free Men of Color. Baton Rouge,
    Louisiana State University Press [c1968] 143 p. facsim., map.
    (Louisiana State University studies. Social science series, no.
    13) UA220.M3
      Bibliography: p. 135-140. Bibliographical references included
      in "Notes" (p. 116-133).

      1326
    Mandelbaum, David G. Soldier groups and Negro soldiers.
    Berkeley, University of California Press, 1952. 142 p.
    E185.63.M35
      Bibliography: p. 133-138.

      1327
    Mason, Monroe, _and_ Arthur Furr. The American Negro soldier
    with the Red Hand of France. Boston, Cornhill Co. [c1920] 180 p.
    plan, plates, port. D639.N4M3

      1328
    Miller, Kelly. Kelly Miller’s history of the world war for human
    rights; being an intensely human and brilliant account of the
    World War and why and for what purpose America and the allies
    are fighting and the important part taken by the Negro.
    Washington, Austin Jenkins Co. [c1919] 608 p. plates, ports.
    D523.M46
      Published also with slight variations in text, under title:
      _Our War for Human Rights._

      1329
    Nell, William C. The colored patriots of the American
    Revolution. New York, Arno Press, 1968. 396 p. illus. (The
    American Negro, his history and literature) E269.N3N4 1968
      Reprint of the 1855 ed.

      1330
    Quarles, Benjamin. The Negro in the American Revolution. Chapel
    Hill, Published for the Institute of Early American History and
    Culture, Williamsburg, Va., by University of North Carolina
    Press [1961] 231 p. E269.N3Q3
      Bibliography: p. [201]-223.

      1331
    Quarles, Benjamin. The Negro in the Civil War. Boston, Little,
    Brown [1953] xvi, 379 p. illus. E540.N3Q3
      Bibliography: p. [349]-360.

      1332
    Scott, Emmett J. Scott’s official history of the American Negro
    in the World War. Prefaced with highest tributes to the American
    Negro by Hon. Newton D. Baker, Gen. John J. Pershing, and the
    late Theodore Roosevelt. [Chicago, Homewood Press, c1919] 511 p.
    illus., plates, ports. D639.N4S3
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1969.

      1333
    Sherman, George R. The Negro as a soldier. By George R. Sherman,
    (Captain,  Seventh United States Colored Infantry and
    Brevet-Lieut.-Colonel, United States volunteers.) Providence,
    The Society, 1913. 34 p. ports. (Personal narratives of events
    in the War of the Rebellion, being papers read before the Rhode
    Island Soldiers and Sailors Historical Society. 7th ser., no. 7)
    E464.R47 [E540.N3S55 E492.9 7th]

      1334
    Singletary, Otis A. Negro militia and Reconstruction. Austin,
    University of Texas Press [1957] 181 p. illus. E668.S59
      Bibliography: p. 153-166.

      1335
    Steward, Theophilus G. The colored regulars in the United States
    Army. New York, Arno Press, 1969. 344 p. illus., ports. (The
    American Negro; his history and literature) E725.5.N3S8 1969
      Reprint of the 1904 ed., with a new preface by W. L. Katz.

      1336
    Stillman, Richard J. Integration of the Negro in the U.S. Armed
    Forces. New York, Praeger [1968] 167 p. illus. (Praeger special
    studies in U.S. economic and social development) E185.63.S7 1968
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1337
    Taylor, Susie K. Reminiscences of my life in camp. New York,
    Arno Press, 1968. 82 p. illus., ports. (The American Negro; his
    history and literature) E492.94 33d.T3 1968
      Reprint of the 1902 ed.

      1338
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights. South Dakota Advisory
    Committee._ Negro airmen in a northern community; discrimination
    in Rapid City, South Dakota; a report. [Washington, U.S. Govt.
    Print. Off.] 1963. 50 p. F659.R2U5
      Cover title: _Report on Rapid City._

      1339
    U.S. _President’s Committee on Equal Opportunity in the Armed
    Forces_. Equality of treatment and opportunity for Negro
    military personnel stationed within the United States; initial
    report. [Washington] 1963. 93 p. E185.63.U63

      1340
    Wesley, Charles H., _and_ Patricia W. Romero. Negro Americans in
    the Civil War; from slavery to citizenship. New York, Publishers
    Co. [1967] 307 p. illus., facsims., maps, ports. (International
    library of Negro life and history) E540.N3W4
      Published under the auspices of the Association for the Study
      of Negro Life and History.
      Bibliography: p. [273]-285.

      1341
    Wesley, Charles H. Ohio Negroes in the Civil War. [Columbus]
    Ohio State University Press for the Ohio Historical Society
    [1962] 46 p. (Publications of the Ohio Civil War Centennial
    Commission, no. 6) E525.O337 no. 6
      Includes bibliography.

      1342
    Williams, George W. A history of the Negro troops in the War of
    the Rebellion, 1861-65; preceded by a review of the military
    services of Negroes in ancient and modern times. New York,
    Bergman Publishers [1968] xvi, 353 p. illus., port. E540.N3W7
    1968
      Reprint of the 1888 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1343
    Wilson, Joseph T. The black phalanx. New York, Arno Press, 1968.
    528 p. illus. (The American Negro; his history and literature)
    E185.63.W815 1968
      Reprint of the 1890 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 517.




28—MUSIC


      1344
    Allen, William F., _comp._ Slave songs of the United States; the
    complete original collection (136 songs) collected and compiled
    by William Francis Allen, Charles Pickard Ware, and Lucy McKim
    Garrison in 1867, with new piano arrangements and guitar chords
    by Irving Schlein. [New York] Oak Publications [1965] 175 p.
    illus. M1670.A42 1965
      Includes facsim. of title page and preface of 1st ed. (New
      York, A. Simpson, 1867).

      1345
    Bradford, Perry. Born with the blues; Perry Bradford’s own
    story. The true story of the pioneering blues singers and
    musicians in the early days of jazz. New York, Oak Publications
    [c1965] 175 p. illus. ML410.B779B6

      1346
    Carawan, Guy, _and_ Candie Carawan. Ain’t you got a right to the
    tree of life? The people of Johns Island, South Carolina, their
    faces, their words, and their songs, recorded by Guy and Candie
    Carawan. Photographed by Robert Yellin. Music transcribed by
    Ethel Raim, with a preface by Alan Lomax. New York, Simon and
    Schuster [1967, c1966] 190 p. illus., map. E185.93.S7C3
      Includes melodies with words.
      Bibliography: p. [11].

      1347
    Chambers, Herbert A., _ed._ The treasury of Negro spirituals.
    [Foreword by Marian Anderson] New York, Emerson Books [1963,
    c1959] 125 p. illus. M1670.C45T7
      Contains 30 well-known spirituals, arranged for voice and
      piano, and six modern compositions, two of which are arranged
      for male quartet.

      1348
    Charters, Samuel B. The bluesmen; the story and the music of the
    men who made the blues. New York, Oak Publications [1967+]
    illus., music, ports. [ML3561.J3C425] [TR: ML3561.B63C5]
      Contents.—v. 1. "The singers and the styles from Mississippi,
      Alabama, and Texas up to the Second World War, with a brief
      consideration of some of the traceable relationships between
      the blues and African song."

      1349
    Courlander, Harold. Negro folk music, U.S.A. New York, Columbia
    University Press, 1963. 324 p. illus., music. ML3556.C7
      "The music" (melodies with words): p. [221]-287.
      Bibliography: p. [299]-301. Discography: p. [302]-308.

      1350
    Dennison, Tim. The American Negro and his amazing music. New
    York, Vantage Press [1963] 76 p. ML3556.D45

      1351
    Dett, Robert Nathaniel, _ed._ Religious folk-songs of the Negro
    as sung at Hampton Institute. Hampton, Va., Hampton Institute
    Press, 1927. xxvii, 236 p. M1670.H3 1927

      1352
    Fisher, Miles M. Negro slave songs in the United States. New
    York, Russell & Russell [1968, c1953] xv, 223 p. ML3556.F58 1968
      Foreword by Ray Allen Billington.
      Includes texts of the songs, without the music.
      Bibliography: p. 193-213.
      Reprint also issued by Citadel Press, 1963.

      1353
    Handy, William C., _ed._ Blues; an anthology. With an
    introduction by Abbe Niles. Illustrations by Miguel Covarrubias.
    New York, A. & C. Boni, 1926. 180 p. illus. M1630.18.H26B5 1926
    [ML30.25e.H35]
      Music: p. 49-180.

      1354
    Handy, William C., _ed._ A treasury of the blues; complete words
    and music of 67 great songs from Memphis blues to the present
    day. With an historical and critical text by Abbe Niles. With
    pictures by Miguel Covarrubias. [New York?] C. Boni; distributed
    by Simon and Schuster [1949] 258 p. illus. M1630.18.H26B5 1949
      First ed. published in 1926 under title: _Blues, an
      Anthology._
      "A selective bibliography": p. 254-255.

      1355
    Hare, Maud C. Negro musicians and their music. Washington,
    Associated Publishers [1936] 439 p. plates, ports. ML3556.H3N4
    [TR: Cuney-Hare, Maud]
      Includes music.
      Bibliography: p. 419-423.

      1356
    Hayes, Roland. My songs; Aframerican religious folk songs
    arranged and interpreted by Roland Hayes. Boston, Little, Brown,
    1948. 128 p. M1670.H4M9
      "An Atlantic Monthly Press book."

      1357
    Jackson, Clyde O. The songs of our years; a study of Negro folk
    music. New York, Exposition Press [1968] 54 p. (An
    Exposition-university book) ML3556.J39
      Bibliography: p. [53]-54.

      1358
    Jackson, George P. White and Negro spirituals, their life span
    and kingship, tracing 200 years of untrammeled song making and
    singing among our country folk, with 116 songs as sung by both
    races. New York, J. J. Augustin [1944] 349 p. illus., music,
    ports. ML3551.J17
      "The tune comparative list. One hundred and sixteen melodies
      of white people paired with same number of Negro-sung
      variants": p. [145]-227.

      1359
    Johnson, James W., _ed._ The book of American Negro spirituals,
    edited with an introduction of James Weldon Johnson; musical
    arrangements by J. Rosamond Johnson, additional numbers by
    Lawrence Brown. New York, Viking Press, 1925. 187 p. M1670.J67

      1360
    Johnson, James W., _and_ John Rosamond Johnson, _eds._ The books
    of American Negro spirituals, including The book of American
    Negro spirituals and The second book of Negro spirituals. New
    York, Viking Press, 1940. 2 v. in 1. M1670.J67B65
      For voice and piano.
      A reissue of the volumes first published separately in 1925
      and 1926. Each volume has special t.p.
      Musical arrangements by J. Rosamond Johnson, additional
      numbers by Lawrence Brown.

      1361
    Jones, LeRoi. Black music. New York, W. Morrow, 1967. 221 p.
    illus. [ML3556.J728] [TR: ML3556.B15 1967 Baraka, Imamu Amiri]

      1362
    Jones, LeRoi. Blues people; Negro music in white America. New
    York, W. Morrow, 1963. 244 p. [ML3556.J73] [TR: ML3556.B16
    Baraka, Imamu Amiri]

      1363
    Keil, Charles. Urban blues. Chicago, University of Chicago Press
    [1966] 231 p. ML3556.K43

      1364
    Kirkeby, W. T. E., Duncan P. Schiedt, _and_ Sinclair Traill.
    Ain’t misbehavin’; the story of Fats Waller. New York, Dodd,
    Mead [1966] 248 p. ports. ML417.W15K6 1966a
      "The music of Thomas ’Fats’ Waller; a selective discography
      compiled by the ’Storyville Team’": p. 233-248.

      1365
    Krehbiel, Henry E. Afro-American folksongs; a study in racial
    and national music. New York, F. Ungar Pub. Co. [1962] 176 p.
    music. ML3556.K9 1962
      Reprint of the 1914 ed.

      1366
    Locke, Alain L. The Negro and his music. Port Washington, N.Y.,
    Kennikat Press [1968] 142 p. (Kennikat Press series in Negro
    culture and history) ML3556.L6N4 1968
      Reprint of the ed. first published in 1936.
      "Reading references" at end of each chapter. "Record
      illustrations" at end of most of the chapters.

      1367
    Lomax, John A., _and_ Alan Lomax, _eds._ Negro folk songs as
    sung by Lead Belly, "king of the twelve-string guitar players of
    the world," long-time convict in the penitentiaries of Texas and
    Louisiana. New York, Macmillan Co., 1936. xiv, 242 p. port.
    ML1670.L84N4
      "The main body of the song-texts consists of transcriptions
      from records we made with an instantaneous aluminum recording
      machine, the property of the Archive of American Folk-song of
      the Library of Congress. This machine and these records were
      used through the courtesy of the Library of Congress. Dr.
      George Herzog transcribed the melodies, as herein printed,
      from these same discs."—Introduction, p. xiii.

      1368
    Lucas, John. Basic jazz on long play. The great soloists:
    ragtime, folksong, blues, jazz, swing, and the great bands: New
    Orleans, swing, dixieland. Northfield, Minn., Carleton Jazz
    Club, Carleton College, 1954. 103 p. (Carleton College,
    Northfield, Minn. Carleton Jazz Club. Bulletin no. 1)
    ML3561.J3L78

      1369
    Nathan, Hans. Dan Emmett and the rise of early Negro minstrelsy.
    Norman, University of Oklahoma Press [1962] xiv, 496 p. illus.,
    facsims. ML410.E5N4
      Includes unaccompanied melodies.
      "Bibliography of the works of D. D. Emmett": p. 290-306.
      "Anthology" (principally melodies with piano accompaniment):
      p. [311]-491.

      1370
    Niles, John J. Singing soldiers. Illustrated by Margaret
    Thorniley Williamson. New introduction by Leslie Shepard.
    Detroit, Singing Tree Press, 1968. 171 p. illus. M1629.M675S45
    1968
      First published in 1927 by C. Scribner’s Sons, New York. "Now
      reissued."
      Contains both accompanied and unaccompanied melodies with
      words.

      1371
    Odum, Howard W., _and_ Guy B. Johnson. The Negro and his songs;
    a study of typical Negro songs in the South. Hatboro, Pa.,
    Folklore Associates, 1964 [c1925] xix, 306 p. ML3556.O3 1964
      "Reprinted from the original ed. of 1925."
      "Select bibliography of Negro folk songs": p. [297]-300.

      1372
    Patterson, Lindsay, _comp._ The Negro in music and art. New
    York, Publishers Co. [1967] xvi, 304 p. illus., facsims., ports.
    (International library of Negro life and history) ML3556.P38
      Published under the auspices of the Association for the Study
      of Negro Life and History.
      Bibliography: p. [291]-296.

      1373
    Ramsey, Frederic. Been here and gone. New Brunswick, N.J.,
    Rutgers University Press [1960] 177 p. illus. ML3556.R3

      1374
    Ramsey, Frederic, _and_ Charles E. Smith, _eds._ Jazzmen. New
    York, Harcourt, Brace [1959, c1939] 360 p. illus. (A Harvest
    book, 30) ML3561.J3R3 1959

      1375
    Scarborough, Dorothy. On the trail of Negro folk-songs, by
    Dorothy Scarborough, assisted by Ola Lee Gulledge. Foreword by
    Roger D. Abrahams. Hatboro, Pa., Folklore Associates, 1963. 295
    p. music. ML3556.S3 1925a
      "Reprinted in facsimile from the original edition of 1925."

      1376
    Shapiro, Nat, _and_ Nat Hentoff, _comps._ Hear me talkin’ to ya;
    the story of jazz as told by the men who made it. New York,
    Dover Publications [1966,c1955] xvi, 429 p. ML3561.J3S46 1966
      "This Dover edition is a reprint of the work originally
      published by Rinehart and Company, Inc., in 1955."

      1377
    Talley, Thomas W., _comp._ Negro folk rhymes, wise and
    otherwise, with a study. Port Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press
    [1968, c1922] 347 p. (Kennikat Press series in Negro culture and
    history) PS595.N3T3 1968
      Includes music (principally melodies with words).

      1378
    Thurman, Howard. Deep river; reflections on the religious
    insight of certain of the Negro spirituals. Illustrated by
    Elizabeth Orton Jones. [Rev. and enl.] New York, Harper [1955]
    93 p. illus. ML3556.T55 1955

      1379
    Thurman, Howard. The Negro spiritual speaks of life and death.
    New York, Harper [1947] 55 p. (The Ingersoll lecture, Harvard
    University, 1947) ML3556.T56

      1380
    Trotter, James M. Music and some highly musical people;
    containing brief chapters on I. A description of music. II. The
    music of nature. III. A glance at the history of music. IV. The
    power, beauty, and uses of music. Following which are given
    sketches of the lives of remarkable musicians of the colored
    race. With portraits, and an appendix containing copies of music
    composed by colored men. Boston, Lee and Shepard, 1878. 353, 152
    p. ports. [ML60.T85] [TR: ML385.T76]
      Music: Appendix, p. 4-152.

      1381
    Williams, Martin T. Jazz masters of New Orleans. New York,
    Macmillan Co. [1967] xvii, 287 p. ports. (The Macmillan jazz
    masters series) ML3561.J3W5315
      Bibliographies and discographies at ends of chapters.




29—ORGANIZATIONS


      1382
    Bell, Inge P. CORE and the strategy of nonviolence. New York,
    Random House [1968] 214 p. (Random House studies in sociology)
    E185.61.B37
      Includes bibliographies.

      1383
    Brooks, Charles H. A history and manual of the Grand United
    Order of Odd Fellows in America. Philadelphia, 1893. 257 p.
    ports. HS1171.3.B8

      1384
    Cass, Donn A. Negro freemasonry and segregation; an historical
    study of prejudice against American Negroes as Freemasons, and
    the position of Negro Freemasonry in the Masonic fraternity.
    Chicago, E. A. Cook Publications, 1957. 152 p. illus. HS883.C3
      Bibliography: p. [150]-152.

      1385
    Clark, Alexander G. History of Prince Hall Freemasonry
    (1775-1945). Des Moines, United Grand Lodge of Iowa, F. & A. M.
    (Prince Hall Affiliation) [1947] 337 p. port. HS883.C47
      Completed by S. Joe Brown after the death of the author.
      "With special reference to the Grand Lodge of Missouri (Prince
      Hall Affiliation) and the three Iowa Grand Lodges that grew
      out of it."

      1386
    Davis, Harry E. A history of freemasonry among Negroes in
    America. [Cleveland? 1946] 334 p. HS883.D35
      "Published under auspices of the United Supreme Council,
      Ancient & Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, Northern
      Jurisdiction, U.S.A. (Prince Hall affiliation), Incorporated."
      Includes bibliographies.

      1387
    Hughes, Langston. Fight for freedom; the story of the NAACP. New
    York, Norton [1962] 224 p. illus. E185.5.N276H8
      Bibliography: p. 207-208.

      1388
    Kellogg, Charles F. NAACP, a history of the National Association
    for the Advancement of Colored People. v. 1. 1909-1920.
    Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press [1967] 332 p. illus., ports.
    E185.5.N276K4, v. 1
      "Bibliographical notes": p. 309-315.

      1389
    Matthews, Joseph B. Communism and the NAACP. [Atlanta, Georgia
    Commission on Education, 1958?] 2 v. E185.5.M3

      1390
    Miller, Helen S. The history of Chi Eta Phi Sorority, Inc.,
    1932-1967. Durham, N.C. [Association for the Study of Negro Life
    and History, 1968] xvi, 244 p. ports. LJ105.C45M5

      1391
    Myers, Phineas B. Ninety-five years after Lincoln; a history of
    the Urban League of Dayton, Ohio. [2d, rev. ed.] New York,
    Exposition Press [1959] 103 p. illus. F499.D2M9 1959
      "The 1950 edition was published under the title: _Eighty-five
      Years after Lincoln_."

      1392
    National Urban League. The National Urban League re-examined; a
    policy to guide the Urban League in its interracial social
    service program. Statement and recommendations from the board
    convention of the National Urban League, April 15-17, 1955....
    Kansas City, Missouri. [New York, 1955] 40 p. E185.5.N33A44

      1393
    National Urban League. The Urban League story, 1910-1960; golden
    50th anniversary year book. [William R. Simms, editor. New York,
    c1961] 66 p. illus. E185.5.N33A53

      1394
    Record, Wilson. Race and radicalism; the NAACP and the Communist
    Party in conflict. Ithaca, N.Y., Cornell University Press [1964]
    xv, 237 p. (Communism in American life) E185.5.N276R4
      Cornell studies in civil liberty.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1395
    Strickland, Arvarh E. History of the Chicago Urban League.
    Urbana, University of Illinois Press, 1966. 286 p. F548.9.N3S76
      Bibliography: p. [265]-272. Bibliographical footnotes.

      1396
    Voorhis, Harold V. Negro masonry in the United States. New York
    City, H. Emmerson, 1940. 132 p. facsims., ports. HS883.V6
      Bibliography: p. 126-128.

      1396a
    Vroman, Mary E. Shaped to its purpose: Delta Sigma Theta—the
    first fifty years. New York, Random House [1965] 213 p.
    LJ145.D58V7

      1397
    Wesley, Charles H. The history of Alpha Phi Alpha; a development
    in Negro college life. [3d ed., rev. and enl.] Washington,
    Foundation Publishers, 1939. xxi, 396 p. illus., ports.
    LJ121.A55W4 1939
      "National Alpha Phi Alpha hymn" (words and music): p. 313-315.

      1398
    Wesley, Charles H. History of the Improved Benevolent and
    Protective Order of Elks of the World, 1898-1954. Washington,
    Association for the Study of Negro Life and History [1955] 503
    p. illus. HS2259.E53W4

      1399
    Wesley, Charles H. The history of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
    Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Ohio, 1849-1960; an
    epoch in American fraternalism. Wilberforce, Ohio, Central State
    College Press [1961] 457 p. illus. HS887.O3W4

      1400
    Wynn, Daniel W. The NAACP versus Negro revolutionary protest; a
    comparative study of the effectiveness of each movement. New
    York, Exposition Press [1955] 115 p. (Exposition—University
    book) E185.61.W98
      Bibliography: p. [103]-110.

      1401
    Zinn, Howard. S N C C, the new abolitionists. Boston, Beacon
    Press [1964] 246 p. E185.61.Z49




30—POLITICS


      1402
    Aikin, Charles, _ed._ The Negro votes. San Francisco, Chandler
    Pub. Co. [1962] 377 p. illus. (Chandler publications in
    political science) DLC-LL [TR: KF4893.A7A35]

      1403
    American Negro Academy, _Washington, D.C._ The Negro and the
    elective franchise. A series of papers and a sermon. Washington,
    1905. 85 p. (Occasional papers, no. 11) [E184.N3A5] [TR:
    E185.5.A51 no. 11]
      Contents.—1. Meaning and need of the movement to reduce
      southern representation [by] A. H. Grimke.—2. The penning of
      the Negro (the Negro vote in the States of the revised
      constitutions) [by] C. C. Cook.—3. The Negro vote in the
      States whose constitutions have not been specifically revised
      [by] John Hope.—4. The potentiality of the Negro vote, North
      and West [by] John L. Love.—5. Migration and distribution of
      the Negro population as affecting the elective franchise [by]
      Kelly Miller.—6. The Negro and his citizenship [by] Rev. F. J.
      Grimke.

      1404
    Ashmore, Harry S. The man in the middle. Columbia, University of
    Missouri Press [1966] 58 p. (The Paul Anthony Brick lectures,
    5th ser.) E846.A8

      1405
    Bailey, Harry A., _ed._ Negro politics in America. Columbus,
    Ohio, C. E. Merrill Books [1967] 455 p. illus., maps. E185.6.B15
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1406
    Banfield, Edward C., _and_ James Q. Wilson. City politics.
    Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1963. 362 p. illus.
    (Publications of the Joint Center for Urban Studies of the
    Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University)
    JS331.B28
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1407
    Brewer, John Mason. Negro legislators of Texas and their
    descendants; a history of the Negro in Texas politics from
    Reconstruction to disfranchisement, with an introduction by
    Herbert P. Gambrell. Dallas, Tex., Mathis Pub. Co. [c1935] 134
    p. map, ports. E185.93.T4B7

      1408
    Brogan, Denis W. Politics in America. New York, Harper [c1954]
    467 p. JK268.B72 1954a [TR: Brogan, D. W.]
      Bibliography: p. 436-441.
      Chapter 3 is on race and politics.

      1409
    Brooke, Edward W. The challenge of change; crisis in our
    two-party system. Boston, Little, Brown [1966] xviii, 269 p.
    E743.B77
      Bibliography: p. 267-269.

      1409a
    Brown, William G. The new politics, and other papers. Boston,
    Houghton Mifflin Co., 1914. 234 p. port. JK271.B67 [TR: Brown,
    William Garrott]
      Contents.—The new politics.—Prophetic voices about
      America.—The white peril: the immediate danger of the
      Negro.—The South and the saloon.—President Taft’s
      opportunity.—Greetings to the presidents.

      1410
    Buni, Andrew. The Negro in Virginia politics, 1902-1965.
    Charlottesville, University Press of Virginia [1967] 296 p.
    E185.93.V8B86
      Bibliography: p. [271]-285.

      1411
    Clayton, Edward T. The Negro politician, his success and
    failure. With an introduction by Martin Luther King, Jr.
    Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1964. xiv, 213 p. E185.6.C637

      1412
    Cornell-Tompkins County Committee for Free and Fair Elections in
    Fayette County, Tennessee. Step by step; evolution and operation
    of the Cornell students’ civil-rights project in Tennessee,
    summer, 1964, by Fayette County Project Volunteers. New York,
    Published for the Fayette County Fund by W. W. Norton [1965] 128
    p. illus. F443.F3C6
      Edited by Douglas F. Dowd and Mary D. Nichols.

      1413
    Coulter, Ellis Merton. Negro legislators in Georgia during the
    Reconstruction period. Athens, Georgia Historical Quarterly,
    1968. 209 p. port. E185.93.G4C6
      "This book is limited to 250 copies."
      Contains articles which originally appeared in the _Georgia
      Historical Quarterly_.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [181]-196).
      Bibliography: p. [197]-201.

      1414
    Cox, LaWanda C. F., _and_ John H. Cox. Politics, principle, and
    prejudice, 1865-1866; dilemma of Reconstruction America. [New
    York] Free Press of Glencoe [1963] 294 p. E666.C84
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 233-281).
      Bibliography: p. 283-286.

      1415
    Cromwell, John W. The challenge of the disfranchised; a plea for
    the enforcement of the 15th amendment. Washington, The Academy,
    1924. 10 p. (American Negro Academy. Occasional papers, no. 22)
    E185.5.A51 no. 22

      1416
    De Santis, Vincent P. Republicans face the Southern question:
    the new departure years, 1877-1897. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins
    Press, 1959. 275 p. maps. (The Johns Hopkins University studies
    in historical and political science, ser. 77, no. 1) H31.J6 ser.
    77, no. 1 F215.D345
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1417
    Edmonds, Helen G. The Negro and fusion politics in North
    Carolina, 1894-1901. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina
    Press [1951] 260 p. illus., maps. E185.93.N6E4
      Bibliography: p. 239-247.

      1418
    Fleming, George J. An all-Negro ticket in Baltimore. [New York]
    Holt, Rinehart and Winston [1960] 16 p. (Case studies in
    practical politics) JS590.Z5 4th.F7

      1419
    Ford, James W. The Negro and the democratic front. Introduction
    by A. W. Berry. New York, International Publishers [c1938] 222
    p. port. E185.6.F67

      1420
    Gosnell, Harold F. Negro politicians; the rise of Negro politics
    in Chicago. With an introduction by James Q. Wilson. Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press [1967] [TR: 1935] xix, 396 p. maps,
    ports. F548.9.N3G67 1967
      "Originally published in 1935."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1421
    Heard, Alexander. A two-party South? Chapel Hill, University of
    North Carolina Press [1952] xviii, 334 p. diagrs., maps.
    F215.H43
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 281-318).

      1422
    Hirshson, Stanley P. Farewell to the bloody shirt; northern
    Republicans & the southern Negro, 1877-1893. Introduction by
    David Donald. Bloomington, Indiana University Press [1962] 334
    p. E661.H58
      Bibliography: p. 259-273.

      1423
    Jarrell, Hampton M. Wade Hampton and the Negro; the road not
    taken. Columbia, University of South Carolina Press, 1949. 209
    p. port. E467.1.H19J3
      Bibliography: p. 189-193.

      1424
    Jarrette, Alfred Q. Politics and the Negro. Boston, Vinjano
    Educational Publishers, 1964. 54 p. illus., facsims., map,
    ports. E185.96.J3
      Bibliography: p. 54.

      1425
    Keech, William R. The impact of Negro voting; the role of the
    vote in the quest for equality. Chicago, Rand McNally [1968] 113
    p. (American politics research series) JK1929.A2K4
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1426
    Key, Valdimer O. Southern politics in State and Nation. With the
    assistance of Alexander Heard. New York, Knopf, 1949. xxvi, 675,
    xiv p. illus., maps, ports. F215.K45 1949
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1427
    Ladd, Everett C. Negro political leadership in the South.
    Ithaca, N.Y., Cornell University Press [1966] 348 p. fold. map.
    E185.61.L22
      Bibliography: p. 333-342.

      1428
    Lewinson, Paul. Race, class & party; a history of Negro suffrage
    and white politics in the South. New York, Russell & Russell,
    1963 [c1959] 302 p. illus. JK1929.A2L4 1963
      First issued in 1932.
      Bibliography: p. 283-292.

      1429
    Logan, Rayford W., _ed._ The attitude of the southern white
    press toward Negro suffrage, 1932-1940. With a foreword by
    Charles H. Wesley. Washington, Foundation Publishers, 1940. 115
    p. JK1929.A2L6

      1430
    Mabry, William A. The Negro in North Carolina politics since
    Reconstruction. Durham, N.C., Duke University Press, 1940. 87 p.
    (Historical papers of the Trinity College Historical Society,
    ser. 23) F251.D83 ser. 23
      Bibliography: p. [84]-87.

      1431
    Matthews, Donald R., _and_ James W. Prothro. Negroes and the new
    southern politics. New York, Harcourt, Brace & World [1966] xvi,
    551 p. illus. E185.61.M38
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1432
    Moon, Henry L. Balance of power: the Negro vote. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1948. 256 p. JK2275.N4M6
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1433
    Morton, Richard L. The Negro in Virginia politics, 1865-1902.
    Charlottesville, University of Virginia, 1919. 199 p. fold.
    maps. (Publications of the University of Virginia. Phelps-Stokes
    fellowship paper, no. 4) E185.93.V8M82
      Published also as thesis (Ph.D.), University of Virginia,
      1919.
      Bibliography: p. [163]-165.

      1434
    Nolan, William A. Communism versus the Negro. Chicago, H.
    Regnery Co., 1951. xvii, 276 p. E185.61.N87
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [207]-267).

      1435
    Nowlin, William F. The Negro in American national politics.
    Boston, Stratford Co. [c1931] 148 p. JK2275.N4N6
      Bibliography: p. 145-148.

      1436
    Ogden, Frederic D. The poll tax in the South. [University]
    University of Alabama Press, 1958. xiv, 301 p. diagrs., tables.
    HJ4931.A13O4
      "Originally submitted as a doctoral dissertation at the Johns
      Hopkins University."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1437
    Olbrich, Emil. The development of sentiment on Negro suffrage to
    1860. [Madison] University of Wisconsin, 1912. 135 p. (Bulletin
    of the University of Wisconsin, no. 477. History series, v. 3,
    no. 1) H31.W62 v. 3, no. 1 JK1923.O55
      Thesis (M.A.)—University of Wisconsin, 1906.
      Bibliography: p. 129-135.

      1438
    Perry, Jennings. Democracy begins at home, the Tennessee fight
    on the poll tax. Cartoons by Tom Little. Philadelphia, J. B.
    Lippincott Co. [1944] 280 p. illus., diagr. HJ4931.T4P4

      1439
    Pike, James S. The prostrate State; South Carolina under Negro
    government. Edited with an introduction to the Torchbook ed. by
    Robert F. Durden. New York, Harper & Row [1968] xlii, 279 p.
    (Harper Torchbooks, TB3085) F274.P632 1968
      Reprint of the 1874 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1440
    Price, Hugh D. The Negro and Southern politics; a chapter of
    Florida history. With an introduction by William G. Carleton.
    [New York] New York University Press, 1957. xviii, 133 p.
    facsims., maps, tables. E185.93.F5P7
      Based on thesis (M.A.)—University of Florida.
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 113-124).
      Bibliography: p. 125-128.

      1441
    Price, Margaret W. The Negro and the ballot in the South.
    Atlanta, Southern Regional Council, 1959. 83 p. tables.
    JK1929.A2P7
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1442
    Record, Wilson. The Negro and the Communist Party. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press [1951] 340 p. E185.61.R29
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 317-331).

      1443
    Riley, Jerome R. The philosophy of Negro suffrage. Hartford,
    Conn., American Pub. Co., 1895. 110 p. port. E185.61.R57

      1444
    Schechter, Betty. The peaceable revolution. Boston, Houghton
    Mifflin, 1963. 243 p. illus. HM278.S35

      1445
    Smith, Samuel D. The Negro in Congress, 1870-1901. Port
    Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press [1966, c1940] 160 p. E185.6.S64
    1966
      Bibliography: p. 145-151.

      1446
    Strong, Donald S. Negroes, ballots, and judges; national voting
    rights legislation in the Federal courts. University, Published
    for the Bureau of Public Administration, University of Alabama,
    by University of Alabama Press [1968] 100 p. KF4893.S8
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1447
    Taper, Bernard. Gomillion versus Lightfoot. New York,
    McGraw-Hill [1963] 131 p. (McGraw-Hill paperbacks, 62855)
    JK1348.A2Z5 1963
      Charles G. Gomillion, a Tuskegee professor, _v._ Mayor Philip
      M. Lightfoot, in a singular case, argued before the Supreme
      Court the denial of Negro voting rights in Tuskegee, Alabama.

      1448
    Tatum, Elbert L. The changed political thought of the Negro,
    1915-1940; with a foreword by Lawrence A. Davis. New York,
    Exposition Press [1951] 205 p. JK2275.N4T3
      Bibliography: p. 195-205.

      1449
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Voting; hearings. Washington,
    U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1959. 325 p. forms. JK1929.A4U5
      Hearings held Dec. 8, 1958, to Jan. 9, 1959, in Montgomery,
      Alabama.

      1450
    Vander, Harry J. The political and economic progress of the
    American Negro, 1940-1963. Dubuque, Iowa, W. C. Brown Book Co.
    [1968] 111 p. illus. JK2275.N4V3
      Includes bibliographies.

      1451
    Wallace, Jesse T. A history of the Negroes of Mississippi from
    1865 to 1890. Clinton, Miss., 1927. 188 p. E185.93.M6W2
      Thesis (Ph. D.)—Columbia University, 1928.
      Vita.
      Bibliography: p. 185-187.

      1451a
    Wardlaw, Ralph W. Negro suffrage in Georgia, 1867-1930. [Athens,
    Ga., 1932] 91 p. ([Georgia. University] Phelps-Stokes fellowship
    studies no. 11) E185.5.G35 no. 11
      Bulletin of the University of Georgia, v. 33, no. 2a.
      Thesis (M.A.)—University of Georgia.
      Bibliography: p. 86-91.

      1452
    Watters, Pat, _and_ Reese Cleghorn. Climbing Jacob’s ladder; the
    arrival of Negroes in Southern politics. New York, Harcourt,
    Brace & World [1967] xvi, 389 p. JK1929.A2W3
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1453
    Weeks, Stephen B. The history of Negro suffrage in the South.
    Boston, Ginn, 1894. p. [671]-703. JK1929.A2W5
      Reprinted from _Political Science Quarterly_, v. 9, no. 4.

      1454
    Weinberg, Kenneth G. Black victory; Carl Stokes and the winning
    of Cleveland. Chicago, Quadrangle Books, 1968. 250 p. facsim.,
    ports. F499.C6S85

      1455
    Wilson, James Q. Negro politics; the search for leadership.
    Glencoe, Ill., Free Press [1960] 342 p. JK1924.W5
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 319-333).




31—PRESS


      1456
    The Black American and the press [by] Armistead S. Pride [and
    others]. Edited by Jack Lyle. Los Angeles, W. Ritchie Press
    [1968] xviii, 86 p. E185.615.B53
      Report of a symposium developed by the Department of
      Journalism, University of California at Los Angeles.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1457
    Brooks, Maxwell R. The Negro press re-examined; political
    content of leading Negro newspapers. Boston, Christopher Pub.
    House [1959] 125 p. PN4888.N4B7
      Includes bibliographies.

      1458
    Detweiler, Frederick G. The Negro press in the United States.
    College Park, Md., McGrath Pub. Co., 1968 [c1922] 274 p.
    PN4888.N4D4 1968
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1459
    Graham, Hugh D. Crisis in print; desegregation and the press in
    Tennessee. [Nashville] Vanderbilt University Press [1967] 338 p.
    illus. E185.93.T3G7
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1459a
    Oak, Vishnu V. The Negro entrepreneur. Yellow Springs, Ohio,
    Printed for the author by the Antioch Press, 1948-49. 2 v.
    illus. E185.8.O2
      Bibliography: v. 1, p. 138-150; v. 2, p. 209-220.
      Contents.—v. 1. The Negro newspaper.—v. 2. The Negro’s
      adventure in general business.

      1460
    Penn, Irvine G. The Afro-American press and its editors. With
    contributions by Hon. Frederick Douglass, Hon. John R. Lynch
    [etc.]. Springfield, Mass., Willey, 1891. 565 p. illus., fold.
    facsim., ports. PN4888.N4P4 [TR: Penn, I. Garland]

      1461
    Simpson, George E. The Negro in the Philadelphia press.
    Philadelphia, 1936. xv, 158 p. diagrs., map, tables.
    PN4899.P48S5 1934
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—University of Pennsylvania, 1934.
      An analysis of Negro material published in the _Philadelphia
      Record_, _Public Ledger_, _Evening Bulletin_, and
      _Philadelphia Inquirer_ during 1908-1932.
      Bibliography: p. [153]-156.

      1462
    Spearman, Walter, _and_ Sylvan Meyer. Racial crisis and the
    press. Atlanta, Southern Regional Council, 1960. 54 p.
    PN4893.S65




32—RACE RELATIONS


      1463
    American Academy of Political and Social Science,
    _Philadelphia_. The Negro protest. Special editor: Arnold M.
    Rose. Philadelphia, 1965. 214 p. (_Its_ Annals, v. 357) H1.A4 v.
    357 E185.61.A45
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1464
    American Academy of Political and Social Science,
    _Philadelphia_. Racial desegregation and integration, edited by
    Ira De A. Reid. Philadelphia, 1956. 211 p. (_Its_ Annals, v.
    304) H1.A4 v. 304 E185.61.A46
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1465
    Ashmore, Harry S. The other side of Jordan. New York, Norton
    [1960] 155 p. E185.61.A73

      1466
    Atkins, James A. The age of Jim Crow. New York, Vantage Press
    [1964] 300 p. E185.97.A84A3

      1467
    Austin, Frank E. The history of segregation. Winter Park, Fla.,
    Printed by the Rollins Press, c1956. 260 p. HT1589.A9

      1468
    Baker, Ray S. Following the color line; American Negro
    citizenship in the progressive era. Introduction and notes to
    the Torchbook ed. by Dewey W. Grantham, Jr. New York, Harper &
    Row [1964] xviii, 311 p. illus., ports. (American perspectives)
    E185.61.B16 1964
      Harper torchbooks. The University library. "TB 3053."
      Chapters 1-8, 10-14, with slight revisions, originally
      appeared in the _American Magazine_, Apr. 1907-Sept. 1908.

      1469
    Baldwin, James. The fire next time. New York, Dial Press, 1963.
    120 p. E185.61.B195

      1470
    Baldwin, James. Notes of a native son. New York, Dial Press,
    1963 [c1955] 158 p. E185.61.B2 1963

      1471
    Banton, Michael P. Race relations. New York, Basic Books [c1967]
    xiv, 434 p. illus., maps. HT1521.B34 1967b
      Bibliography: p. [394]-415.

      1472
    Bennett, Lerone. Confrontation: black and white. Foreword by A.
    Philip Randolph. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1965. 321 p.
    E185.B42
      Bibliography: p. [305]-312.

      1473
    Boyd, Malcolm. You can’t kill the dream. Reflections. Photos
    compiled by Bruce Roberts. The American dream, by Eric Sevareid.
    Richmond, John Knox Press [1968] 80 p. illus., ports.
    E185.61.B776

      1474
    Boyle, Sarah P. The desegregated heart; a Virginian’s stand in
    time of transition. New York, Morrow, 1962. 364 p. E185.61.B778

      1475
    Boyle, Sarah P. For human beings only; a primer of human
    understanding. New York, Seabury Press, 1964. 127 p.
    E185.61.B779

      1476
    Braden, Anne. The wall between. New York, Monthly Review Press,
    1958. 306 p. F459.L8B7
      Autobiographical.

      1477
    Brink, William J., _and_ Louis Harris. The Negro revolution in
    America; what Negroes want, why and how they are fighting, whom
    they support, what whites think of them and their demands. New
    York, Simon and Schuster, 1964 [c1963] 249 p. tables.
    E185.61.B795
      "Based on the nationwide survey by _Newsweek_ magazine."

      1478
    Bunche, Ralph J. A world view of race. Port Washington, N.Y.,
    Kennikat Press [1968, c1936] 98 p. (Kennikat Press series in
    Negro culture and history) HT1521.B78 1968
      Includes bibliographies.

      1479
    Caldwell, Erskine. In search of Bisco. New York, Farrar, Straus
    and Giroux [1965] 219 p. E185.61.C2
      Story of the author’s visits to the deep South in search of
      his childhood playmate, a Negro boy named Bisco, from whom he
      was separated by the laws of a segregated society.

      1480
    Carter, Hodding. The South strikes back. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1959. 213 p. E185.61.C28

      1481
    Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. Lyndon B.
    Johnson, Robert C. Weaver, Joseph P. Lyford, and John Cogley on
    the Negro as an American. [Santa Barbara, Calif., 1963] 18 p.
    (_Its_ Occasional papers) E185.61.C4

      1482
    Clark, Dennis. The ghetto game; racial conflicts in the city.
    New York, Sheed and Ward [1962] 245 p. E184.A1C53
      Includes bibliographies.

      1483
    Clark, Kenneth B. Dark ghetto; dilemmas of social power.
    Foreword by Gunnar Myrdal. New York, Harper & Row [1965] xxix,
    251 p. illus. F128.9.N3C65

      1484
    Clark, Kenneth B. The Negro protest: James Baldwin, Malcolm X,
    Martin Luther King talk with Kenneth B. Clark. Boston, Beacon
    Press [1963] 56 p. E185.61.C62

      1485
    Cleaver, Eldridge. Eldridge Cleaver; post-prison writings and
    speeches. Edited and with an appraisal by Robert Scheer. New
    York, Random House [1969] xxxiii, 211 p. E185.615.C63

      1486
    Cleaver, Eldridge. Soul on ice. With an introduction by Maxwell
    Geismar. New York, McGraw-Hill [1967, c1968] xv, 210 p.
    E185.97.C6
      "A Ramparts book."

      1487
    Collins, Winfield H. The truth about lynching and the Negro in
    the South, in which the author pleads that the South be made
    safe for the white race. New York, Neale Pub. Co., 1918. 163 p.
    E185.65.C7

      1488
    Conference on Negro-Jewish Relations in the United States, _New
    York, 1964_. Negro-Jewish relations in the United States; papers
    and proceedings. New York, Citadel Press, 1966. 71 p.
    E185.61.C7545 1964
      "Convened by the Conference on Jewish Social Studies, New York
      City."
      First published in _Jewish Social Studies_, v. 27, Jan. 1965.
      Bibliography: p. 67-71.

      1489
    Connecticut. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Attitudes toward
    racial integration in Connecticut, by Henry G. Stetler,
    supervisor, Research Division. Hartford, 1961. 50 p. illus.
    E185.93.C7A52

      1490
    Cook, James G. The segregationists. New York,
    Appleton-Century-Crofts [1962] 376 p. E184.A1C62

      1491
    Creger, Ralph. A look down the lonesome road, by Ralph Creger
    with Erwin L. McDonald. Foreword by Harry Golden. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1964. xiv, 223 p. E185.61.C9

      1492
    Curry, Jesse E., _and_ Glen D. King. Race tensions and the
    police. With a foreword by George Eastman. Springfield, Ill.,
    Thomas [1962] 137 p. (Police science series) HV8069.C8
      Bibliography: p. 135.

      1493
    Dabbs, James M. The Southern heritage. New York, Knopf, 1958.
    273 p. E185.61.D2

      1494
    Dees, Jesse W., _and_ James S. Hadley. Jim Crow. Ann Arbor, Ann
    Arbor Publishers [1951] 529 p. illus. E185.61.D4
      Bibliography: p. 483-495.

      1495
    Doyle, Bertram W. The etiquette of race relations in the South.
    Port Washington, N.Y., Kennikat Press [1968, c1937] xxv, 249 p.
    (Kennikat Press series in Negro culture and history)
    E185.61.D766
      Bibliography: p. 173-190.

      1496
    DuBois, William E. B. Dusk of dawn; an essay toward an
    autobiography of a race concept. New York, Harcourt, Brace
    [1940] 334 p. E185.97.D73

      1497
    Dykeman, Wilma, _and_ James Stokely. Neither black nor white.
    New York, Rinehart [1957] 371 p. E185.61.D993

      1498
    Essien-Udom, Essien U. Black nationalism; a search for an
    identity in America. [Chicago] University of Chicago Press
    [1962] 367 p. illus., ports. E185.61.E75
      Bibliography: p. 351-360.

      1499
    Evers, _Mrs._ Medgar. For us, the living, by Mrs. Medgar Evers
    with William Peters. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1967. 378 p.
    E185.97.E94E9

      1500
    Fager, Charles E. White reflections on black power. Grand
    Rapids, W. B. Eerdmans Pub. Co. [1967] 118 p. E185.615.F3

      1501
    Fields, Uriah J. The Montgomery story; the unhappy effects of
    the Montgomery bus boycott. New York, Exposition Press [1959] 87
    p. E185.89.T8F5

      1501a
    Fontaine, William T. Reflections on segregation, desegregation,
    power and morals. Springfield, Ill., Thomas [1967] 162 p.
    (American lecture series, publication no. 700. A monograph in
    the Bannerstone division of American lectures in philosophy)
    E185.615.F6
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1502
    Fortune, T. Thomas. Black and white; land, labor, and politics
    in the South. New York, Arno Press, 1968. 310 p. (The American
    Negro, his history and literature) E185.61.F74 1968
      Reprint of work first published in 1884.

      1503
    Franklin, John H., _comp._ Color and race. Boston, Houghton
    Mifflin, 1968. xvi, 391 p. (The Daedalus library, v. 13)
    HT1521.F65
      Includes bibliographies.

      1504
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. On race relations; selected writings.
    Edited and with an introduction by G. Franklin Edwards. Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press [1968] xx, 331 p. illus. (The
    Heritage of sociology) E185.F835 1968
      Includes bibliographical references.
      "Bibliography of E. Franklin Frazier": p. 325-331.

      1505
    Ginzberg, Eli, _and_ Alfred S. Eichner. The troublesome
    presence; American democracy and the Negro. [New York] Free
    Press of Glencoe [1964] 339 p. E185.G5
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1506
    Harkey, Ira B. The smell of burning crosses; an autobiography of
    a Mississippi newspaperman. Jacksonville, Ill., Harris-Wolfe
    [1967] 208 p. E185.61.H248

      1507
    Harris, Janet, _and_ Julius W. Hobson. Black pride; a people’s
    struggle. New York, McGraw-Hill [1969] 160 p. illus., ports.
    E185.H3
      Traces the history of black people in America and the
      struggles of such leaders as Frederick Douglass, Malcolm X,
      and Martin Luther King to establish a racial identity and
      equal rights for Negroes as citizens of the United States.
      Bibliography: p. 153-157.

      1508
    Hays, Brooks. A southern moderate speaks. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press [1959] 231 p. E185.61.H435

      1509
    Height, Dorothy I. Step by step with interracial groups. [Rev.
    ed.] New York, Publications Services, National Board, YMCA
    [1955] 56 p. HT1521.H4 1955

      1510
    Hentoff, Nat. The new equality. New York, Viking Press [1964]
    243 p. E185.61.H49

      1511
    Johnson, James W. Negro Americans, what now? New York, Viking
    Press, 1934. 103 p. E185.61.J69

      1512
    Kerlin, Robert T. The voice of the Negro, 1919. New York, Arno
    Press, 1968. 188 p. (The American Negro, his history and
    literature) E185.61.K4 1968
      Reprint of the 1920 ed.

      1513
    Killens, John O. Black man’s burden. New York, Trident Press,
    1965. 176 p. E185.61.K487

      1514
    Lester, Julius. Look out, Whitey! Black power’s gon’ get your
    mama! New York, Dial Press, 1968. 152 p. E185.615.L475
    Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 147-149).
    Bibliography: p. 151-152.

      1515
    Lightfoot, Claude M. Ghetto rebellion to black liberation. New
    York, International Publishers [1968] 192 p. E185.61.L553

      1516
    Lubell, Samuel. White and black: test of a nation. 2d ed., rev.
    New York, Harper & Row [1966] xiv, 233 p. (Harper colophon
    books, CN75J) E185.61.L8 1966
      Bibliographical references included in "Reading notes" (p.
      219-226).

      1517
    McWilliams, Carey. Brothers under the skin. Rev. ed. Boston,
    Little, Brown [1964] xix, 364 p. E184.A1M19 1964
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1518
    Marx, Gary T. Protest and prejudice; a study of belief in the
    black community. New York, Harper & Row [1967] xxviii, 228, 27
    p. E185.615.M32
      "Volume three in a series based on the University of
      California Five-year Study of Anti-Semitism in the United
      States, being conducted by the Survey of Research Center ...
      under a grant from the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai
      B’rith."

      1519
    Moody, Anne. Coming of age in Mississippi. New York, Dial Press,
    1968. 348 p. E185.97.M65A3
      Autobiographical.

      1520
    Moon, Bucklin. The high cost of prejudice. New York, J. Messner
    [1947] xvi, 168 p. E185.61.M75
      "Check list for further reading": p. 165-168.

      1521
    Moton, Robert R. What the Negro thinks. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, Doran, 1929. 267 p. E185.61.M934

      1522
    National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. An
    appeal to the world; a statement on the denial of human rights
    to minorities in the case of citizens of Negro descent in the
    United States of America and an appeal to the United Nations for
    redress. Prepared under the editorial supervision of W. E.
    Burghardt Du Bois. [New York, 1947] 94 p. NcD
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1523
    National Urban League. The racial gap, 1955-1965: 1965-1975 in
    income, unemployment, education, health [and] housing [by Sylvia
    Lauter]. New York [1967] 41 p. E185.615.N3
      Bibliography: p. 40-41.

      1524
    Negro and Jew: an encounter in America; a symposium compiled by
    Midstream magazine. Shlomo Katz, editor. New York, Macmillan
    [1967] xvi, 141 p. E185.61.N386

      1525
    New South (_Atlanta_). Changing patterns in the new South; a
    unique record of the growth of democracy in the South in the
    last decade, from the pages of the Southern Regional Council’s
    publication New South. [Atlanta, Southern Regional Council,
    1955] 116 p. E185.61.N47
      Many of the selections have been condensed. Several of the
      articles were originally issued in newspapers or adapted from
      speeches, before being printed in the _New South_.

      1526
    New York (_State_) _State Commission for Human Rights. Research
    Division._ Negroes in five New York cities, a study of problems,
    achievement, and trends, by Eunice and George Grier. [New York,
    New York State Commission against Discrimination] 1958. 113
    leaves. illus. E185.93.N56N46
      Bibliography: leaves C1-C9.

      1526a
    Newby, Idus A. Challenge to the Court; social scientists and the
    defense of segregation, 1954-1966. Baton Rouge, Louisiana State
    University Press [1967] 239 p. E185.61.N46
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1527
    Newby, Idus A. Jim Crow’s defense; anti-Negro thought in
    America, 1900-1930. Baton Rouge, Louisiana State University
    Press, 1965. xv, 230 p. E185.61.N475
      Bibliography: p. 201-221.

      1528
    Nolen, Claude H. The Negro’s image in the South; the anatomy of
    white supremacy. Lexington, University of Kentucky Press, 1967.
    xix, 232 p. E185.61.N872
      "Bibliographical essay": p. [211]-218.

      1529
    Osofsky, Gilbert. The burden of race; a documentary history of
    Negro-white relations in America. New York, Harper & Row [1967]
    xvi, 654 p. E185.O8
      Bibliography: p. 637-641.

      1530
    Park, Robert E. Race and culture. Glencoe, Ill., Free Press
    [1950] xxii, 403 p. port. (_His_ Collected papers, v. 1)
    HT1521.P3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1531
    Peck, James. Freedom ride. New York, Simon and Schuster, 1962.
    160 p. E185.61.P43

      1532
    Peters, William. The Southern temper. With a foreword by Harry
    Golden. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1959. 283 p. E185.61.P47
      Bibliographical references included in "Acknowledgments" (p.
      [9]-10).

      1533
    Petersen, William, _ed._ American social patterns; studies of
    race relations, popular heroes, voting, union democracy, and
    government bureaucracy. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1956. 263
    p. illus. (Doubleday anchor books, A86) HN57.P4
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1534
    Phelps-Stokes Fund. Negro status and race relations in the
    United States, 1911-1946; the thirty-five year report of the
    Phelps-Stokes Fund, by Anson Phelps Stokes, with contributions
    from Channing H. Tobias [and others] and a documentary appendix.
    New York, 1948. 219 p. E185.61.P53
      Cover title: _Progress in Negro Status and Race Relations,
      1911-1946._
      Includes bibliographies.

      1535
    Pope, Liston. The kingdom beyond caste. New York, Friendship
    Press [1957] 170 p. HT1521.P6

      1535a
    Powledge, Fred. Black power, white resistance; notes on the new
    civil war. Cleveland, World Pub. Co. [1967] 282 p. E185.615.P6
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1536
    Proudfoot, Merrill. Diary of a sit-in. Foreword by Frank P.
    Graham. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press [1962]
    204 p. F444.K7P95

      1537
    Putnam, Carleton. Race and reason, a Yankee view. Washington,
    Public Affairs Press [1961] 125 p. E185.61.P84

      1538
    Quint, Howard H. Profile in black and white; a frank portrait of
    South Carolina. Washington, Public Affairs Press [1958] 214 p.
    E185.93.S7Q5

      1539
    Randel, William P. The Ku Klux Klan; a century of infamy.
    Philadelphia, Chilton Books [1965] xvii, 300 p. illus. E668.R18
      "Bibliographical note": p. 265-294.

      1540
    Raper, Arthur F. The tragedy of lynching. Chapel Hill,
    University of North Carolina Press, 1933. 499 p. diagr., map.
    ([University of North Carolina. Social study series]) HV6464.R3
      Presented by the Southern Commission on the Study of Lynching.

      1541
    Reuter, Edward B. The American race problem; a study of the
    Negro. New York, Crowell [c1927] 448 p. diagrs., map, tables.
    (Crowell’s social science series) E185.61.R44
      "Readings" at end of each chapter.

      1542
    Rogers, Joel A. From "superman" to man. 5th ed. New York, J. A.
    Rogers Publications [c1941] 132 p. E185.61.R72 1941 [Rogers, J.
    A.]

      1543
    Rowan, Carl T. Go South to sorrow. New York, Random House [1957]
    246 p. E185.61.R855

      1544
    Rowan, Carl T. South of freedom. New York, Knopf, 1952. 270 p.
    E185.61.R86

      1545
    Rumbough, Constance H. Crumbling barriers. Foreword by Charles
    S. Johnson. New York, Fellowship Publications [1948] 45 p.
    E185.61.R935

      1546
    Shannon, Alexander H. The racial integrity of the American
    Negro. Nashville, Printed for the author by Parthenon Press
    [1951] 264 p. E185.62.S52 1951
      Bibliography: p. 261.

      1546a
    Silberman, Charles E. Crisis in black and white. New York,
    Random House [1964] 370 p. E185.61.S57
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1547
    Smith, James Wesley. The strange way of truth. New York, Vantage
    Press [1968] 145 p. E185.93.V8S55
      Bibliography: p. 141-145.

      1548
    Stanton, William R. The leopard’s spots: scientific attitudes
    toward race in America, 1815-59. [Chicago] University of Chicago
    Press [1960] 244 p. GN17.S75
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 197-238).

      1549
    Stover, William H. M. Don’t just deplore discrimination, do
    something! New York, Vantage Press [1964] 188 p. form.
    E185.61.S9

      1550
    Talmadge, Herman E. You and segregation. Birmingham, Ala.,
    Vulcan Press [1955] 79 p. E185.61.T2

      1551
    Thompson, Edgar T., _ed._ Race relations and the race problem; a
    definition and an analysis. Contributors: Robert E. Park [and
    others] New York, Greenwood Press, 1968 [c1939] xv, 338 p. maps.
    E184.A1T5 1968
      Bibliography: p. [307]-328.

      1552
    Thurman, Howard. The luminous darkness; a personal
    interpretation of the anatomy of segregation and the ground of
    hope. New York, Harper & Row [1965] 113 p. E185.61.T47

      1553
    Tucker, Sterling. Beyond the burning: life and death of the
    ghetto. New York, Association Press [1968] 160 p. E185.615.T8
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 152-160).

      1554
    Tumin, Melvin M. Desegregation: resistance and readiness, by
    Melvin M. Tumin, with the assistance of Warren Eason [and
    others]. Princeton, N.J., Princeton University Press, 1958.
    xvii, 270 p. tables. E185.61.T88
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1555
    Vander Zanden, James W. Race relations in transition; the
    segregation crisis in the South. New York, Random House [1965]
    135 p. (Studies in sociology, SS25) E185.61.V33
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 118-126).
      "Suggested readings": p. 127-129.

      1556
    Vaughan, Curtis M. Faubus’ folly; the story of segregation. New
    York, Vantage Press [1959] 160 p. E185.61.V36

      1557
    Warren, Robert Penn. Segregation, the inner conflict in the
    South. New York, Random House [1956] 66 p. E185.61.W2

      1558
    Weatherby, William J. Love in the shadows. New York, Stein and
    Day [1966] 182 p. E185.61.W35 1966
      First published in 1965 under title: _Breaking the Silence_.

      1559
    Weatherford, Willis D., _and_ Charles S. Johnson. Race
    relations; adjustment of whites and Negroes in the United
    States. Boston, D. C. Heath [c1934] 590 p. (Social relations
    series) E185.W42
      Bibliography: p. 556-576.

      1560
    White, Walter F. How far the promised land? New York, Viking
    Press, 1955. 244 p. E185.61.W6

      1561
    White, Walter F. Rope & faggot; a biography of Judge Lynch. New
    York, Knopf, 1929. 272 p. front., tables. HV6457.W45
      Bibliography: p. 269-272.

      1562
    Williams, O. R. Segregation and common sense. Boston, Forum Pub.
    Co. [1961] 217 p. E185.61.W737

      1563
    Williamson, Joel, _comp_. The origins of segregation. Boston, D.
    C. Heath [1968] xiv, 113 p. (Problems in American Civilization)
    E185.615.W5
      Contents.—The strange career of Jim Crow, by C. V.
      Woodward.—The color line, by G. B. Tindall.—Jim Crow laws and
      miscegenation, by V. L. Wharton.—Social acceptance and
      unacceptance, by C. E. Wynes.—The separation of the races, by
      J. Williamson.—Why Negroes were segregated in the new South,
      by C. V. Woodward.—In summation, by C. E. Wynes.—The debate on
      school segregation in South Carolina, 1868.—The Negroes in
      Negroland, by H. R. Helper.—The Negro, by J. R. Sparkman.—The
      silent South, by G. W. Cable.—Urban segregation during
      slavery, by R. C. Wade.—Segregation in the antebellum North,
      by L. F. Litwack.—Why segregation in postwar Philadelphia, by
      B. H. Hunt.—Ethnic relations in American communities, by R. M.
      Williams, Jr.—Suggestions of additional reading (p. 111-113).

      1564
    Wood, Forrest G. Black scare; the racist response to
    emancipation and Reconstruction. Berkeley, University of
    California Press, 1968. 219 p. illus. E185.61.W84
      Bibliography: p. [193]-210.

      1565
    Woodward, Comer Vann. The strange career of Jim Crow. 2d rev.
    ed. New York, Oxford University Press, 1966. 205 p. E185.61.W86
    1966
      "Notes on reading": p. 193-196.

      1566
    Woofter, Thomas J. Southern race progress, the wavering color
    line. Introduction by Jonathan Daniels. Washington, Public
    Affairs Press [1957] 180 p. E185.61.W923

      1567
    Wright, Nathan. Let’s work together. New York, Hawthorn Books
    [1968] 271 p. E185.615.W72

      1568
    Wright, Nathan. Ready to riot. New York, Holt, Rinehart and
    Winston [1968] 148 p. illus., maps. HN80.N685W74
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1569
    Wright, Richard. White man, listen! Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, 1957. 190 p. HT1581.W7
      Reprint issued by Anchor Books, 1964.

      1569a
    Zinn, Howard. The Southern mystique. New York, Knopf, 1964. 267
    p. E185.61.Z5
      "Bibliographical notes": p. 265-267.




33—RACE RELATIONS—Riots


      1570
    Berson, Lenora E. Case study of a riot; the Philadelphia story.
    With commentaries by Alex Rosen and Kenneth B. Clark. New York,
    Institute of Human Relations Press, American Jewish Committee
    [1966] 71 p. maps. ([American Jewish Committee. Institute of
    Human Relations] Pamphlet series, no. 7) F158.9.N3B4

      1571
    California. _Governor’s Commission on the Los Angeles Riots._
    Transcripts, depositions, consultants reports, and selected
    documents. Los Angeles, 1965. 18 v. illus. (part col.), maps.
    F869.L8C15
      Includes bibliographies.

      1572
    California. _Governor’s Commission on the Los Angeles Riots._
    Violence in the city—an end or a beginning? A report. [Los
    Angeles] 1965. 101 p. plates (part col.), fold. col. map.
    F869.L8C17

      1573
    Cohen, Jerry, _and_ William S. Murphy. Burn, baby, burn! The Los
    Angeles race riot, August 1965. Introduction by Robert Kirsch.
    New York, Dutton, 1966. 318 p. illus., ports. F869.L8C6

      1574
    Conot, Robert E. Rivers of blood, years of darkness; the
    unforgettable classic account of the Watts riot. New York,
    Morrow, 1968 [c1967] 497 p. F869.L8C66 1968
      Bibliography: p. 493-497.

      1575
    Crump, Spencer. Black riot in Los Angeles; the story of the
    Watts tragedy. Los Angeles, Trans-Anglo Books [1966] 160 p.
    illus., facsims., maps (part col.), ports. F869.L8C78
      "Appendix: The text of the McCone Commission report": p.
      125-154.
      Bibliography: p. 155.

      1576
    Gilbert, Ben W. Ten blocks from the White House; anatomy of the
    Washington riots of 1968 [by] Ben W. Gilbert and the staff of
    the Washington Post. New York, Praeger [1968] xix, 245 p.
    illus., maps. (Praeger paperbacks, P-240) F200.G5

      1577
    Hayden, Thomas. Rebellion in Newark; official violence and
    ghetto response. New York, Vintage Books [1967] 102 p. maps.
    F144.N6H27

      1578
    Heaps, Willard A. Riots, U.S.A., 1765-1965. New York, Seabury
    Press [1966] 186 p. [E178.3.H427] [TR: HV6477.H527 1966]
      Bibliography: p. 174-182.

      1579
    Illinois. _Chicago Commission on Race Relations._ The Negro in
    Chicago; a study of race relations and a race riot in 1919. New
    York, Arno Press, 1968. xxiv, 672 p. illus., maps. (The American
    Negro, his history and literature) F548.9.N3I2 1968
      Reprint of the 1922 ed.

      1580
    Janowitz, Morris. Social control of escalated riots. [Chicago?]
    University of Chicago, Center for Policy Study [1968] 44 p.
    HV6477.J3
      "Prepared for the Center’s conference on ’Short Term and
      Emergency Measures to Avert Urban Violence.’"
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1581
    Lee, Alfred M., _and_ Norman D. Humphrey. Race riot, Detroit
    1943. With a new introductory essay by Alfred McClung Lee. New
    York, Octagon Books, 1968 [c1943] xxxiii, 143 p. illus., maps.
    F574.D4L4 1968
      Bibliography: p. 142-143.

      1582
    Momboisse, Raymond M. Riots, revolts, and insurrections.
    Springfield, Ill., C. C. Thomas [1967] xviii, 523 p. HV8055.M6

      1583
    Nelson, Truman J. The torture of mothers. Introduction by
    Maxwell Geismar. Newburyport, Mass., Garrison Press [1965] 121
    p. ports. F128.9.N3N37
      Experiences related by mothers and children who were subjected
      to violent treatment at the hands of the police during the
      Harlem riots of fall 1964.

      1584
    Rudwick, Elliott M. Race riot at East St. Louis, July 2, 1917.
    Foreword by Oscar Handlin. Carbondale, Southern Illinois
    University Press [1964] xvii, 300 p. illus., maps. F549.E2R8
      Bibliography: p. 285-291.

      1585
    Shogan, Robert, _and_ Tom Craig. The Detroit race riot; a study
    in violence. Philadelphia, Chilton Books [1964] 199 p. F574.D4S5
      Bibliography: p. 185-188.

      1586
    Supplemental studies for the National Advisory Commission on
    Civil Disorders. New York, Praeger [1968] 248 p. forms. (Praeger
    special studies in U.S. economic and social development)
    E185.61.S94 1968b
      "The studies were conducted independently of the Commission
      and of each other by research groups at the University of
      Michigan, the Johns Hopkins University, and Columbia
      University."
      Bibliographical footnotes.
      Contents.—Racial attitudes in fifteen American cities, by A.
      Campbell and H. Schuman.—Between white and black; the faces of
      American institutions in the ghetto, by P. H. Rossi, and
      others.—Who riots? A study of participation in the 1967 riots,
      by R. M. Fogelson and R. B. Hill.

      1587
    U.S. _Congress. House. Select Committee on New Orleans Riots._
    New
    Orleans riots. Minority report. [Washington? 1866?] 24 p.
    F379.N5U5 [TR: F379.N557A85]
      Presented by B. M. Boyer.
      From _House Report_, no. 16, 39th Congress, 2d session.

      1588
    U.S. _National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders._ Report.
    [Washington, For sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print.
    Off., 1968] xv, 425 p. illus., ports. HV6477.A56
      Commercially published, with an introduction by Tom Wicker, in
      hard covers by E. P. Dutton and in paperback by Bantam, New
      York, 1968.

      1589
    Urban riots: violence and social change. Edited by Robert H.
    Connery. New York, 1968. 190 p. (Proceedings of the Academy of
    Political Science, v. 29, no. 1) HN58.U7
      Many of the "papers in this issue ... were delivered at a
      conference sponsored by the academy in cooperation with the
      Columbia University Center on Urban Minority Affairs, April
      19, 1968."
      Bibliography: p. 183-190.

      1590
    Walker, Marion E. Black rebellion. Columbia, S.C., National
    Graphics [1968] 64 p. illus., ports. HV6477.W34

      1591
    Waskow, Arthur I. From race riot to sit-in, 1919 and the 1960s;
    a study in the connections between conflict and violence. Garden
    City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1966. xviii, 380 p. E185.61.W24 [TR:
    Waskow, Arthur Ocean]
      Bibliography: p. [355]-366.




34—REGIONAL STUDIES


      1592
    Allen, James E. The Negro in New York. Foreword by Arthur
    Levitt. New York, Exposition Press [1964] 94 p. E185.93.N56A55
      Bibliography: p. [93]-94.

      1593
    Aukofer, Frank A. City with a chance. Milwaukee, Bruce Pub. Co.
    [1968] 146 p. F589.M6A93
      Milwaukee is the city discussed.

      1594
    Bartlett, Irving H. From slave to citizen; the story of the
    Negro in Rhode Island. Foreword by Benjamin Crocker Clough.
    Providence, Urban League of Greater Providence, 1954. 76 p.
    illus. E185.93.R4B3
      "Bibliographical note": p. 74-76.

      1595
    Beasley, Delilah L. The Negro trail blazers of California; a
    compilation of records from the California archives in the
    Bancroft Library at the University of California, in Berkeley;
    and from the diaries, old papers, and conversations of old
    pioneers in the State of California. Los Angeles, 1919. 317 p.
    ports. F870.N38B3 1919b
      Photo offset. San Francisco, R and E Research Associates,
      1968.
      Bibliography: p. [13-14].

      1596
    Burgess, Margaret E. Negro leadership in a southern city. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press [1962] 231 p. illus.
    E185.61.B95
      Bibliography: p. [219]-226.

      1597
    California. _State Fair Employment Practice Commission._ Negro
    Californians; population, employment, income, education. San
    Francisco, Division of Fair Employment Practices, 1963. 34 p.
    E185.93.C2A5
      "Derived principally from the 1960 Census of population, the
      statistical tables were compiled by the California Division of
      Labor Statistics and Research."

      1598
    Chicago. University. _Chicago Community Inventory._ Chicago’s
    Negro population; characteristics and trends. A report by the
    Chicago Community Inventory, University of Chicago, to the
    Office of the Housing and Redevelopment Coordinator and the
    Chicago Plan Commission. [Chicago] 1956. 109 p. maps. ICU
      "This report was prepared by Otis Dudley Duncan, associate
      director, and Beverly Duncan, research assistant."

      1599
    Clark, Peter W. Delta shadows, "a pageant of Negro progress in
    New Orleans." Illustrated by Numa Joseph Roussève. [New Orleans]
    Graphic Arts Studios, 1942. 200 p. illus., ports. F379.N5C6

      1600
    Clarke, John H., _ed._ Harlem, a community in transition. New
    York, Citadel Press [c1964] 223 p. illus., ports. F128.68.H3C55
      "Much of the material in this book is from the Summer 1963
      (Volume III, no. 3) issue of _Freedomways_."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1601
    Claspy, Everett. The Negro in southwestern Michigan; Negroes in
    the North in a rural environment. Dowagiac, Mich., 1967. 112 p.
    E185.93.M5C55
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1602
    Crum, Mason. Gullah; Negro life in the Carolina Sea Islands.
    Durham, N.C., Duke University Press, 1940. xv, 351 p. plates.
    (Duke University publications) E185.93.S7C85
      Bibliography: p. [345]-351.

      1603
    Dabney, Wendell P. Cincinnati’s colored citizens; historical,
    sociological and biographical. Cincinnati, Dabney Pub. Co.
    [c1926] 440 p. illus., ports. F499.C5D12

      1604
    Daniels, John. In freedom’s birthplace; a study of the Boston
    Negroes. Boston, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1914. 496 p. F73.9.N4D2

      1605
    De Jong, Gordon F., _and_ George A. Hillery. Kentucky’s Negro
    population in 1960. Lexington, University of Kentucky,
    Agricultural Experiment Station, Dept. of Rural Sociology, 1965.
    32 p. illus., map. ([Kentucky. Agricultural Experiment Station,
    Lexington] Bulletin 704) E185.93.K3D4
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1606
    Detroit Urban League. _Research Dept._ A profile of the Detroit
    Negro, 1955-1964. [Detroit] 1965. 62 p. illus., maps. F574.D4D59
      Bibliography: p. 62.

      1607
    Drake, St. Clair, _and_ Horace R. Cayton. Black metropolis; a
    study of Negro life in a northern city. Introduction by Richard
    Wright. Introduction to Torchbook ed. by Everett C. Hughes.
    [Rev. and enl. ed.] New York, Harper & Row [1962] 2 v. illus.
    (Harper torchbooks, TB1086-1087. The Academy library)
    F548.9.N3D68 1962
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes and
      documentation" (p. 783-792). "A list of selected books dealing
      with the American Negro": p. 793-796. "Suggestions for
      collateral reading": p. 797-798.

      1608
    DuBois, William E. B. The Philadelphia Negro; a social study.
    Together with a special report on domestic service, by Isabel
    Eaton. New York, B. Blom [1967] xx, 520 p. illus., 2 fold. col.
    plans. (Publications of the University of Pennsylvania. Series
    in political economy and public law, no. 14) F158.9.N3D8 1967
      Contents.—The Philadelphia Negro.—Appendixes. A. Schedules
      used in the house-to-house inquiry. B. Legislation, etc., of
      Pennsylvania in regard to the Negro. C. Bibliography (p.
      419-423). Special report on Negro domestic service in the
      seventh ward, Philadelphia, by I. Eaton.

      1608a
    Ehle, John. The free men. New York, Harper & Row [1965] 340 p.
    illus., ports. F264.C38E4
      A portrait of a moderate southern community (Chapel Hill,
      North Carolina) experiencing an effort at integration in the
      years 1963-64.

      1609
    Gay, William T. Montgomery, Alabama, a city in crisis. New York,
    Exposition Press [1957] 117 p. F334.M7G3

      1610
    Green, Constance M. The secret city; a history of race relations
    in the Nation’s Capital. Princeton, N.J., Princeton University
    Press, 1967. xv, 389 p. illus., ports. E185.93.D6G7
      "Bibliographical note": p. 339-348. Bibliography: p. 349-361.

      1611
    Handlin, Oscar. The newcomers: Negroes and Puerto Ricans in a
    changing metropolis. Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1959.
    171 p. illus. (New York metropolitan region study) F128.9.A1H3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [147]-164).
      New York City is the metropolis under study.

      1612
    Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited, _New York_. Youth in the
    ghetto; a study of the consequences of powerlessness and a
    blueprint for change. New York, 1964. xxi, 614 p. illus., maps,
    tables. HN80.N5H3
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1613
    Hesslink, George K. Black neighbors; Negroes in a northern rural
    community. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill [1968] xvii, 190 p. maps.
    F572.C3H4
      Bibliography: p. 185-190.
      Cass County, Michigan, is the area under study.

      1613a
    Johnson, Charles S. Shadow of the plantation. Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press [1934] xxiv, 214 p. diagr., plates.
    E185.93.A3J6
      Macon County, Alabama, was the area chosen for this survey.

      1614
    Johnson, Haynes B. Dusk at the mountain; the Negro, the Nation,
    and the Capital; a report on problems and progress. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday, 1963. 273 p. E185.93.D6J56
      Bibliography: p. [260]-266.

      1615
    Johnson, James W. Black Manhattan. New York, Arno Press, 1968
    [c1930] 284, xxxiv p. illus., plans, ports. (The American Negro,
    his history and literature) F128.9.N3J67 1968

      1616
    Johnson, William. William Johnson’s Natchez; the ante-bellum
    diary of a free Negro. Edited by William Ransom Hogan and Edwin
    Adams Davis. [Baton Rouge] Louisiana State University Press
    [1951] 812 p. illus., facsims. (Source studies in Southern
    history, no. 1) E185.97.J697A3

      1617
    Joiner, William A. A half century of freedom of the Negro in
    Ohio. Xenia, Ohio, Press of Smith Adv. Co. [1915?] 134 p.
    illus., ports. E185.93.O2J6
      Cover title: _The Ohio Book for the Lincoln Jubilee._
      "College song, Dear old Wilberforce [by] W.A. Joiner [and] F.
      J. Work" (close score): p. 134.

      1618
    Langhorne, Orra H. M. G. Southern sketches from Virginia,
    1881-1901. Edited by Charles E. Wynes. Charlottesville,
    University Press of Virginia [1964] xxxix, 145 p. illus., ports.
    F231.L3
      "The writings of Orra Langhorne": p. 139-140. Bibliographical
      footnotes.

      1618a
    Lee, Frank F. Negro and white in Connecticut Town. New York,
    Bookman Associates [1961] 207 p. map. E185.93.C7L4
      "Based upon the writer’s unpublished doctoral dissertation ...
      Yale University, 1953."
      "Annotated bibliography": p. 179-199.

      1618b
    Lee, George W. Beale Street, where the blues began. Foreword by
    W. C. Handy. New York, R. O. Ballou [c1934] 296 p. ports.
    F444.M5L4

      1619
    Liebow, Elliot. Tally’s corner; a study of Negro streetcorner
    men. With a foreword by Hylan Lewis. Boston, Little, Brown
    [1967] xvii, 260 p. E185.93.D6L5 1967
      Revision of thesis, Catholic University of America.
      Bibliography: p. [257]-260.
      Washington, D.C., is the locale.

      1620
    Logan, Frenise A. The Negro in North Carolina, 1876-1894. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press [1964] 244 p.
    E185.93.N6L6
      Bibliography: p. [221]-233.

      1621
    Lyda, John W. The Negro in the history of Indiana. [Terre Haute?
    Ind., 1953] 136 p. E185.93.I4L9
      Bibliography: p. 131-136.

      1621a
    McCord, William M. Mississippi: the long hot summer. New York,
    Norton [1965] 222 p. E185.93.M6M32
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 211-215).
      The violence of the summer of 1964 as related and interpreted
      by a sociologist in terms of his own participation.

      1622
    Maryland. _Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations._ An
    American city in transition; the Baltimore community self-survey
    of inter-group relations. [Sponsored by] Maryland Commission on
    Interracial Problems and Relations [and] Baltimore Commission on
    Human Relations. [Baltimore] 1955. 264 p. illus., map.
    F189.B1M25

      1623
    Michigan. _Freedmen’s Progress Commission._ Michigan manual of
    freedmen’s progress. Compiled by Francis H. Warren. Detroit.
    1915. [Detroit] J. M. Green [1968] 371, 34 p. illus., ports.
    E185.93.M5A43 1968

      1624
    Minnesota. _Governor’s Human Rights Commission._ The Negro and
    his home in Minnesota; a report to Governor Luther W. Youngdahl
    of Minnesota by the Governor’s Interracial Commission. [St.
    Paul] 1947. 77 p. illus. E185.93.M55A5 1947
      "Third of a series of reports ... on various racial
      situations."

      1625
    Moore, Geraldine H. Behind the ebony mask. [Birmingham, Ala.]
    Southern University Press, 1961. 220 p. illus. F334.B6M57
      On the Negro in Birmingham, Alabama.

      1626
    National Urban League. _Community Relations Project._ A study of
    the social and economic conditions of the Negro population of
    Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, conducted for the Oklahoma City Council
    of Social Welfare by the National Urban League as part of its
    Community Relations Project, Dept. of Research, June-July, 1945.
    [Oklahoma City? 1945?] 91 p. F704.O41N3

      1627
    National Urban League. _Dept. of Research and Community
    Projects._ The Negro community of Baltimore; a summary report of
    a social study conducted for the Baltimore Urban League through
    the Dept. of Research, National Urban League, by Ira De A. Reid.
    Drawings by Wilmer Jennings. Baltimore, 1935. 46 p. diagrs.
    F189.B1N24

      1628
    The Negro in Milwaukee; a historical survey. [Milwaukee,
    Milwaukee County Historical Society, 1968] 32 p. illus., ports.
    F589.M6N48
      Contents.—The railway porter who wanted to vote, by F. I.
      Olson.—Negroes in Milwaukee, by W. T. Green.—An incident of
      early Milwaukee law enforcement, by W. J. Vollmar.—Negro
      recognition in early Milwaukee, by C. V. Salomon.—Thirty years
      a slave, by L. Hughes.—Landmark civil rights decision in
      Wisconsin, by H. H. Anderson.—Milwaukee Negroes elected to
      public office.

      1629
    New York _(City) Interdepartmental Neighborhood Service Center_.
    The poor of Harlem: social functioning in the underclass; a
    report to the Welfare Administration by Joan Gordon, with the
    assistance of Carolyn Atkinson [and others]. New York, 1965,
    c1966. 167 p. HN80.N5A49
      "Welfare Administration project 105."

      1630
    O’Reilly, Charles T. The inner core——north; a study of
    Milwaukee’s Negro community. [Milwaukee, University of
    Wisconsin] 1963. 96 p. illus., maps. F589.M6O685
      "A project of the School of Social Work, the University of
      Wisconsin—Milwaukee for the Ford urban program, the University
      of Wisconsin Extension Division."
      Includes bibliographies.

      1631
    Osofsky, Gilbert. Harlem; the making of a ghetto; Negro New
    York, 1890-1930. New York, Harper & Row [1966] 259 p. illus.,
    facsims., ports. F128.9.N3O73
      Includes bibliographies.

      1632
    Ottley, Roi, _and_ William J. Weatherby. The Negro in New York;
    an informal social history. New York, New York Public Library,
    1967. xix, 328 p. map. F128.9.N3O74
      "Edited from manuscripts in the Schomburg Collection of Negro
      Literature and History, the New York Public Library ...
      originally prepared by the Federal Writers Project under the
      working title, ’Harlem—the Negroes of New York (an informal
      social history).’"
      Bibliography: p. 297-312.

      1633
    Ottley, Roi. New world a-coming. New York, Arno Press, 1968. 364
    p. illus. (The American Negro, his history and literature)
    F128.9.N3O75 1968
      Reprint of the 1943 ed.
      Bibliography: p. [348]-354.
      The Negro in New York City.

      1633a
    Patterson, Caleb P. The Negro in Tennessee, 1790-1865. Austin,
    Tex., University [1922] 213 p. (University of Texas bulletin.
    no. 2205: Feb. 1, 1922) E445.T3P2
      Bibliography: p. 202-209.

      1634
    Posey, Thomas E. The Negro citizen of West Virginia. Institute,
    W. Va., Press of West Virginia State College [1934] 119 p.
    diagrs., plates, ports. E185.93.W5P6
      Bibliography: p. [110]-112.

      1634a
    Quillin, Frank U. The color line in Ohio; a history of race
    prejudice in a typical northern State. Ann Arbor, Mich., G.
    Wahr, 1913. xvi, 178 p. maps. (University of Michigan historical
    studies. [3]) E185.93.O2Q62
      Published also as thesis (Ph.D.), University of Michigan,
      1910.
      Bibliography: p. [167]-171.

      1635
    Record, Wilson. Minority groups and intergroup relations in the
    San Francisco Bay area. [Berkeley, Calif.] 1963. 48 p.
    F868.S156R4
      At head of title: Institute of Governmental Studies,
      University of California, Berkeley.
      The Institute of Governmental Studies presents this monograph
      as part of its series of Franklin K. Lane papers.

      1636
    Rose, Willie L. N. Rehearsal for Reconstruction; the Port Royal
    experiment. With an introduction by C. Vann Woodward.
    Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill [1964] xviii, 442 p. illus., fold.
    map, ports. F277.B3R6
      "Notes on sources": p. 409-433.
      Concerns Sea Islands, South Carolina.

      1637
    Roussève, Charles B. The Negro in Louisiana; aspects of his
    history and his literature. New Orleans, Xavier University
    Press, 1937. xvii, 212 p. illus., diagrs., music, plates.
    E185.93.L6R6
      "This work, prepared in 1935 in partial fulfillment of the
      requirements for the degree of master of arts, makes its
      appearance ... substantially as it was originally written,
      save for ... several minor alterations and the addition of a
      few details."—p. vii.
      Bibliography: p. 193-201.

      1638
    Russell, John H. The free Negro in Virginia, 1619-1865.
    Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press, 1913. 194 p. (Johns Hopkins
    University studies in historical and political science, series
    31, no. 3) H31.J6 E185.93.V8R9
      Thesis (Ph.D.)—Johns Hopkins University, 1913.
      Bibliography: p. 178-186.

      1639
    Scheiner, Seth M. Negro mecca; a history of the Negro in New
    York City, 1865-1920. [New York] New York University Press,
    1965. 246 p. F128.9.N3S3
      Bibliography: p. 226-242.

      1640
    Sexton, Patricia C. Spanish Harlem; an anatomy of poverty. New
    York, Harper & Row [1965] 208 p. map. [F128.9.F8S48] [TR:
    F128.9.P8S48]
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1641
    Silver, James W. Mississippi: the closed society. New York,
    Harcourt, Brace & World [1964] xxii, 250 p. facsim., map.
    F345.S5
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1642
    Spangler, Earl. The Negro in Minnesota. With an introduction by
    Carl T. Rowan. Minneapolis, T. S. Denison [1961] 215 p.
    E185.93.M55S7
      Bibliography: p. 186-213.

      1643
    Spear, Allan H. Black Chicago; the making of a Negro ghetto,
    1890-1920. Chicago, University of Chicago Press [1967] xvii, 254
    p. illus., col. maps, ports. F548.9.N3S65
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1644
    Steward, William, _and_ Theophilus G. Steward. Gouldtown, a very
    remarkable settlement of ancient date; studies of some sturdy
    examples of the simple life, together with sketches of early
    colonial history of Cumberland County and southern New Jersey
    and some early genealogical records. Philadelphia, Press of J.
    B. Lippincott Co., 1913. 237 p. plates, ports. F144.G69S8
      Gouldtown was one of the earliest all-Negro settlements.

      1645
    Tate, Thaddeus W. The Negro in eighteenth-century Williamsburg.
    Williamsburg, Va., Colonial Williamsburg; distributed by the
    University Press of Virginia, Charlottesville [c1965] xiv, 256
    p. (Williamsburg research studies) F234.W7T3
      Bibliography: p. [237]-246.

      1646
    Thornbrough, Emma L. The Negro in Indiana; a study of a
    minority. [Indianapolis] Indiana Historical Bureau, 1957. 412 p.
    (Indiana historical collections, v. 37) F535.N4T5
      Cover title and half-title: _The Negro in Indiana Before
      1900._
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1647
    Tindall, George B. South Carolina Negroes, 1877-1900. Columbia,
    University of South Carolina Press, 1952. 336 p. illus., ports.
    E185.93.S7T5
      Bibliography: p. 311-326.

      1648
    United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston. Black and
    white in Boston; a report based on the Community Research
    Project. [By] Donald D. Dobbin, Norma J. Emond [and] Janine G.
    O’Grady. [Boston, Research Dept., United Community Services of
    Metropolitan Boston] 1968. 44 p. map. F73.9.N4U5

      1648a
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Hearings before the United
    States Commission on Civil Rights. Hearings held in Detroit,
    Michigan, December 14, 1960 [and] December 15, 1960. Washington,
    U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1961. 511 p. illus., fold. maps.
    E185.93.M5A5

      1648b
    Warner, Robert A. New Haven Negroes, a social history. New
    Haven, Published for the Institute of Human Relations by Yale
    University Press, 1940. xiv, 309 p. facsim., maps, plates, port.
    F104.N6W27
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1649
    Washington, Nathaniel J. Historical development of the Negro in
    Oklahoma. Tulsa, Okla., Dexter Pub. Co. [1948] 71 p. illus.,
    maps. E185.93.O4W3
      Bibliography: p. 69-71.

      1650
    Waynick, Capus M., John C. Brooks, _and_ Elsie W. Pitts, _eds._
    North Carolina and the Negro. Raleigh, North Carolina Mayors’
    Co-operating Committee, 1964. xvii, 309 p. illus. (part col.),
    maps, ports. (part col.) E185.93.N6W3
      Bibliography: p. 271-287.

      1651
    Whaley, Marcellus S. The old types pass; Gullah sketches of the
    Carolina Sea Islands. Illustrated by Edna Reed Whaley. Boston,
    Christopher Pub. House [c1925] 192 p. music, plates.
    E185.93.S7W6

      1652
    Wharton, Vernon L. The Negro in Mississippi, 1865-1890. Chapel
    Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1947. 298 p. (The
    James Sprunt studies in history and political science, v. 28)
    F251.J28 v. 28
      Bibliography: p. [277]-292.

      1653
    Wightman, Orrin S. Early days of coastal Georgia. Photographs by
    Orrin Sage Wightman. Story by Margaret Davis Cate. St. Simons
    Island, Ga., Fort Frederica Association [1955] 235 p. illus.,
    maps. F286.W6

      1654
    Wright, James M. The free Negro in Maryland, 1634-1860. New
    York, Columbia University, 1921. 362 p. (Studies in history,
    economics and public law, v. 97, no. 3; whole no. 222) H31.C7 v.
    97 [E185.W95]
      Bibliography: p. 348-362.

      1655
    Wynes, Charles E. Race relations in Virginia, 1870-1902.
    Charlottesville, University of Virginia Press, 1961. 164 p.
    E185.93.V8W9
      Bibliography: p. 151-160.




35—RELIGION AND THE CHURCH


      1656
    Adams, C. C., _and_ Marshall A. Talley. Negro Baptists and
    foreign missions. Philadelphia, Foreign Mission Board of the
    National Baptist Convention, U.S.A. [c1944] 84 p. BV2521.A85

      1657
    Bragg, George F. History of the Afro-American group of the
    Episcopal Church. Baltimore, Church Advocate Press, 1922. 319 p.
    plates, ports. BX5979.B7
      "Negro ordinations from 1866 to present": p. [267]-287.
      Clerical directory: p. [285]-292.

      1658
    Brawley, E. M., _ed._ The Negro Baptist pulpit; a collection of
    sermons and papers on Baptist doctrine and missionary and
    educational work, by colored Baptist ministers. Philadelphia,
    American Baptist Publication Society [1890] 300 p. [BX6447.B7]
    [TR: BX6452.B7 1890]

      1659
    Brotz, Howard. The black Jews of Harlem: Negro nationalism and
    the dilemmas of Negro leadership. [New York] Free Press of
    Glencoe [1964] 144 p. F128.68.H3B7
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 133-140).

      1660
    Campbell, Will D. Race and the renewal of the church.
    Philadelphia, Westminster Press [1962] 90 p. (Christian
    perspectives on social problems) BT734.C3

      1661
    The Church and the urban racial crisis, edited by Mathew Ahmann
    and Margaret Roach. Techny, Ill., Divine Word Publications
    [1967] 262 p. E185.615.C58
      "The major addresses and background papers prepared for the
      August, 1967, convention of the National Catholic Conference
      for Interracial Justice held at Rockhurst College in Kansas
      City, Missouri."

      1662
    Culver, Dwight W. Negro segregation in the Methodist Church. New
    Haven, Yale University Press, 1953. 218 p. (Yale studies in
    religious education, 22) BX8382.A17C8
      Based on the author’s thesis, Yale University, 1948.
      Bibliography: p. [191]-206.

      1663
    Daniel, Vattel E. Ritual in Chicago’s South Side churches for
    Negroes. Chicago, 1940. 155 leaves. mounted col. map.
    BR563.N4D29
      Thesis—University of Chicago.
      Typescript (carbon copy).
      Bibliography: leaves 144-150.

      1664
    Day, Helen C. Color, ebony. New York, Sheed & Ward, 1951. 182 p.
    BX4668.D34
      Concerns converts to Catholicism.

      1665
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ The Negro church; report of a
    social study made under the direction of Atlanta University;
    together with the Proceedings of the Eighth Conference for the
    Study of the Negro Problems, held at Atlanta University, May
    26th, 1903. Atlanta, Atlanta University Press, 1903. 212 p.
    (Atlanta University publications, no. 8) E185.5.A88 no. 8
    E185.7.D81
      "Select bibliography of Negro churches": p. vi-viii.

      1666
    Fauset, Arthur H. Black gods of the metropolis; Negro religious
    cults of the urban North. Philadelphia, University of
    Pennsylvania Press, 1944. 126 p. plates, ports. (Publications of
    the Philadelphia Anthropological Society, v. 3) BR563.N4F3 1944a
      Brinton memorial series, [no. 2].
      Issued also as thesis (Ph.D.), University of Pennsylvania.
      "A study of five Negro religious cults in the Philadelphia of
      today."—Preface.

      1667
    Felton, Ralph A. Go down, Moses; a study of 21 successful Negro
    rural pastors. Madison, N.J., Dept. of the Rural Church, Drew
    Theological Seminary [1952] 95 p. illus. BR563.N4F38

      1668
    Felton, Ralph A. These my brethren; a study of 570 Negro
    churches and 1542 Negro homes in the rural South. Madison, N.J.,
    Dept. of the Rural Church, Drew Theological Seminary [1950] 102
    p. BR563.N4F4

      1669
    Fisk University, _Nashville_. _Social Science Institute._ God
    struck me dead; religious conversion experiences and
    autobiographies of Negro ex-slaves. Nashville, 1945. 218 leaves.
    (_Its_ Social science source documents, no. 2) BV4930.F5

      1670
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. The Negro church in America. New York,
    Schocken Books [1964, c1963] 92 p. (Studies in sociology)
    BR563.N4F7
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1671
    Fuller, Thomas O. History of the Negro Baptists of Tennessee.
    [Memphis, Tenn., Haskins Print, c1936] 346 p. plates, ports.
    [BX6444.T4F8]

      1672
    Gillard, John T. The Catholic Church and the American Negro;
    being an investigation of the past and present activities of the
    Catholic Church in behalf of the 12,000,000 Negroes in the
    United States, with an examination of the difficulties which
    affect the work of the colored missions. Baltimore, St. Joseph’s
    Society Press, 1929 [i.e. 1930] xv, 324 p. diagr., map, tables
    (part fold.) BX1407.N4G5
      Bibliography: p. 291-301.

      1673
    Harrison, William P. The gospel among the slaves. A short
    account of missionary operations among the African slaves of the
    Southern States. Compiled from original sources. Nashville, Pub.
    House of the M. E. Church, South. 1893. 394 p. illus., ports.
    BV2783.H3

      1674
    Haynes, Leonard L. The Negro community within American
    Protestantism, 1619-1844. Boston, Christopher Pub. House [1953]
    264 p. BR563.N4H38

      1675
    Hough, Joseph C. Black power and white Protestants; a Christian
    response to the new Negro pluralism. New York, Oxford University
    Press, 1968. 228 p. BT734.2.H63
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1676
    Ingram, Tolbert R., _ed._ Essays on segregation. Boston, St.
    Thomas Press, 1960. 106 p. BT734.3.I5

      1677
    Johnston, Ruby F. The development of Negro religion. New York,
    Philosophical Library [1954] 202 p. illus. BR563.N4J6

      1678
    Joint Survey Commission of the Baptist Inter-convention
    Committee. The Negro Baptist ministry; an analysis of its
    profession, preparation, and practices, by Ira De A. Reid.
    Report of a survey conducted by the Joint Survey Commission of
    the Baptist Inter-convention Committee: the American Baptist
    Convention, the National Baptist Convention [and] the Southern
    Baptist Convention. [Philadelphia, H. and L. Advertising Co.]
    1951 [i.e. 1952] 145 p. BV4080.J6

      1679
    Jones, Howard O. Shall we overcome? A challenge to Negro and
    white Christians. Westwood, N.J., F. H. Revell Co. [1966] 146 p.
    BT734.2.J6

      1680
    Jordan, Lewis G. Negro Baptist history, U.S.A., 1750, 1930.
    Nashville, Sunday School Pub. Board, N.B.C. [1930] 394 p.
    plates, ports. BX6443.J6
      "Minutes of the Baptist Foreign Mission Convention of the
      United States of America held in Montgomery, Ala., November
      24, 25, 26, 1880" (p. [153]-170) and "Minutes of the fourth
      annual session of the Baptist Foreign Mission Convention of
      the United States of America, held with the First Baptist
      Church, Manchester, Virginia, September 19-22, 1883" (p.
      [217]-236) have special title pages.
      Bibliography: p. 392-394.

      1680a
    King, Martin Luther. Strength to love. New York, Harper & Row
    [1963] 146 p. BX6452.K5

      1681
    Koger, Azzie B. Negro Baptists of Maryland. [Baltimore, Clarke
    Press] c1946. 78 p. illus., ports. BX6444.M3K6 1946
      First published in 1936 under title: _History of the Negro
      Baptists of Maryland._

      1682
    Lincoln, Charles Eric. The Black Muslims in America. Foreword by
    Gordon Allport. Boston, Beacon Press [1961] 276 p. E185.61.L56
      "This book originated as a dissertation ... in the Graduate
      School of Boston University."
      Includes bibliography.
      This black separatist group, also called the Nation of Islam,
      under the leadership of Elijah Mohammad, has a widespread
      following in the United States.

      1683
    Lincoln, Charles Eric. My face is black. Boston, Beacon Press
    [1964] 137 p. E185.61.L57
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [134]-137).
      Includes further discussion of the Black Muslims.

      1684
    Loescher, Frank S. The Protestant church and the Negro.
    Philadelphia, 1948. 159 p. BR563.N4L6 1948a
      Essential portion of thesis—University of Pennsylvania.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1685
    Mays, Benjamin E., _and_ Joseph W. Nicholson. The Negro’s
    church. New York, Institute of Social and Religious Research
    [c1933] 321 p. maps. BR563.N4M3

      1686
    Millea, Thomas V. Ghetto fever. Milwaukee, Bruce Pub. Co. [1968]
    166 p. F548.9.N3M5
      Concerns church and race problems in Chicago.

      1687
    Payne, Daniel A., _Bp._ History of the African Methodist
    Episcopal Church. Edited by Rev. C. S. Smith. Nashville, Pub.
    House of the A.M.E. Sunday-School Union, 1891. xvi, 502 p.
    ports. BX8443.P28

      1688
    Pipes, William H. Say amen, brother! Old-time Negro preaching: a
    study in American frustration. New York, William-Frederick
    Press, 1951. 210 p. BR563.N4P53
      Bibliography: p. 201-205.

      1689
    Poole, Elijah. Message to the blackman in America, by Elijah
    Muhammad. Chicago, Muhammad Mosque of Islam No. 2 [1965] xxvii,
    355 p. [BP222.P6] [TR: BP222.E4]
      On the Black Muslims.

      1690
    Reimers, David M. White Protestantism and the Negro. New York,
    Oxford University Press, 1965. 236 p. E185.61.R36
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 190-222).
      Bibliography: p. 223-227.

      1691
    Richardson, Harry V. Dark glory, a picture of the church among
    Negroes in the rural South. New York, Pub. for Home Missions
    Council of North America and Phelps-Stokes Fund by Friendship
    Press [1947] xiv, 209 p. BR563.N4R5
      "A selected reading list": p. 194-197.

      1692
    Sellers, James E. The South and Christian ethics. New York,
    Association Press [1962] 190 p. E185.61.S48

      1693
    Singleton, George A. The romance of African Methodism; a study
    of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. New York, Exposition
    Press [1952] 251 p. illus. BX8443.S45

      1694
    Sleeper, Charles F. Black power and Christian responsibility;
    some Biblical foundations for social ethics. Nashville, Abingdon
    Press [1968, c1969] 221 p. BS680.E84S5
      Bibliography: p. 205-217.

      1695
    Tyms, James D. The rise of religious education among Negro
    Baptists; a historical case study. New York, Exposition Press
    [1966, c1965] xiv, 408 p. (An Exposition-university book)
    BX6450.T93
      Bibliography: p. [397]-403.

      1696
    Washington, Joseph R. Black religion; the Negro and Christianity
    in the United States. Boston, Beacon Press [1964] 308 p.
    BR563.N4W3
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. 298-303).

      1697
    Washington, Joseph R. The politics of God. Boston, Beacon Press
    [1967] 234 p. BR563.N4W33
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1698
    Weatherford, Willis D. American churches and the Negro; an
    historical study from early slave days to the present. Boston,
    Christopher Pub. House [1957] 310 p. BR563.N4W4

      1699
    Woodson, Carter G. The history of the Negro church. Washington,
    Associated Publishers [c1921] 330 p. plates, ports. BR563.N4W6

      1700
    Woodward, Joseph Herbert. The Negro bishop movement in the
    Episcopal diocese of South Carolina. McPhersonville, S.C., H.
    Woodward [c1916] 45 p. BX5967.W65

      1701
    Year book of Negro churches, with statistics and records of
    achievements of Negroes in the United States. 1935-36+
    Wilberforce, Ohio, Printed at Wilberforce University. E185.7.Y43
      Editor: Reverdy C. Ransom.
      "Published by authority of the bishops of the A.M.E. Church."




36—SOCIAL CONDITIONS


      1702
    Barndt, Joseph R. Why black power? New York, Friendship Press
    [1968] 122 p. E185.615.B35

      1703
    Berry, Brewton. Race and ethnic relations. 3d ed. Boston,
    Houghton Mifflin [1965] 435 p. illus. HT1521.B45 1965

      1704
    Boggs, James. The American revolution; pages from a Negro
    worker’s notebook. New York, Monthly Review Press, 1963. 93 p.
    E841.B6
      "MR9."

      1705
    Booker, Simeon. Black man’s America. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
    Prentice-Hall [1964] 230 p. E185.6.B76

      1706
    Clemons, Lulamae, Erwin Hollitz, _and_ Gordon A. Gardner. The
    American Negro. St. Louis, Webster Division, McGraw-Hill [1965]
    138 p. illus., ports. (Americans all series) E185.C6
      Bibliography: p. 122-124.

      1707
    Cohn, David L. God shakes creation. New York, Harper, 1935. xvi,
    299 p. plates. E185.93.M6C64
      At head of title: by David L. Cohn; drawings by Lucian Dent.
      "Some of the salient features of ... society ... [of the
      Mississippi] delta."—Foreword.

      1708
    Cruse, Harold. The crisis of the Negro intellectual. New York,
    Morrow, 1967. 594 p. E185.82.C74
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1709
    Davis, Allison, Burleigh B. Gardner, _and_ Mary R. Gardner. Deep
    South; a social anthropological study of caste and class.
    Directed by W. Lloyd Warner. Chicago, University of Chicago
    Press [1941] xv, 558 p. diagrs., forms, tables. HN79.A2D3

      1710
    Dollard, John. Caste and class in a southern town. 3d ed. Garden
    City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1957 [c1949] 466 p. (Doubleday anchor
    books, A95) F215.D65 1957
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1711
    Dunbar, Ernest. The black expatriates; a study of American
    Negroes in exile. New York, Dutton, 1968. 251 p. E185.94.D8

      1712
    Eppes, Susan B. The Negro of the old South, a bit of period
    history. [Rev.] Macon, Ga., J. W. Burke Pub. Co. [c1941] xvi,
    203 p. illus. E443.E64 1941

      1713
    Ferman, Louis A., Joyce L. Kornbluh, _and_ Alan Haber, _eds._
    Poverty in America; book of readings. Introduction by Michael
    Harrington. Rev. ed. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Press
    [1968] xxxiii, 669 p. illus. HC110.P6F4 1968
      Includes bibliographies.

      1714
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. Black bourgeoisie. With a new preface
    by the author. New York, Collier Books [1962] 222 p. illus.
    (Collier books, AS347) E185.61.F833 1962

      1715
    Greer, Scott A. Urban renewal and American cities; the dilemma
    of democratic intervention. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill [1966,
    c1965] 201 p. HT175.U6G7
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1716
    Griffin, John H. Black like me. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1961.
    176 p. E185.61.G8
      The author darkened his skin and traveled as a Negro in the
      deep South.

      1717
    Hare, Nathan. The black Anglo-Saxons. With an introduction by
    Oliver C. Cox. [New York] Marzani & Munsell [1965] 124 p.
    E185.86.H3
      Bibliographical references included in footnotes.

      1718
    Herskovits, Melville J. The American Negro; a study in racial
    crossing. Bloomington, Indiana University Press [1964, c1928] 92
    p. (A Midland book, MB61) E185.89A5H5 1964
      "Bibliographic appendix": p. 83-87.

      1719
    Johnson, Charles S. Growing up in the Black Belt; Negro youth in
    the rural South. With an introduction by St. Clair Drake.
    Prepared for the American Youth Commission, American Council on
    Education. New York, Schocken Books [1967, c1941] xxvi, 358 p.
    map. E185.86.J6 1967

      1719a
    Kennedy, Louise V. The Negro peasant turns cityward; effects of
    recent migrations to northern centers. New York, Columbia
    University Press, 1930. 270 p. diagr. (Studies in history,
    economics and public law, no. 329) [H31.C7 no.] 329 E185.8.K35
      "Research conducted ... under subsidy by the Social Science
      Research Council and the Columbia University Council for
      Research in the Social Sciences."
      Published also as thesis (Ph.D.), Columbia University.
      "General bibliography": p. 239-255.

      1720
    Larkins, John R. Alcohol and the Negro: explosive issues.
    Zebulon, N.C., Record Pub. Co., 1965. 251 p. illus. E185.86.L36
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1721
    Larsson, Clotye M., _ed._ Marriage across the color line.
    Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co., 1965. 204 p. HQ1031.L3

      1722
    Lewis, Hylan. Blackways of Kent. Chapel Hill, University of
    North Carolina Press, 1955. xxiv, 337 p. diagrs., tables. (Field
    studies in the modern culture of the South) E185.6.L4
      Based on thesis, University of Chicago.

      1723
    McCord, Charles H. The American Negro as a dependent, defective
    and delinquent. [Nashville, Press of Benson Print. Co., c1914]
    342 p. E185.65.M13

      1724
    Miller, Abie. The Negro and the Great Society. New York, Vantage
    Press [1966, c1965] 209 p. E185.M64

      1725
    Moore, Richard B. The name "Negro," its origin and evil use. New
    York, Afroamerican Publishers, 1960. 82 p. illus. E185.89.N3M6

      1726
    Myrdal, Gunnar. An American dilemma: the Negro problem and
    modern democracy. With the assistance of Richard Sterner and
    Arnold Rose. 20th anniversary ed. New York, Harper & Row [1962]
    1483 p. illus. E185.6.M95 1962
      Bibliography: p. 1144-1180.

      1727
    Peterkin, Julia M. Roll, Jordan, roll; the photographic studies
    by Doris Ulmann. New York, R. O. Ballou [c1933] 251 p. illus.,
    plates. E185.6.P46

      1728
    Powdermaker, Hortense. After freedom; a cultural study in the
    Deep South. With a new preface by Elliott M. Rudwick. New York,
    Russell & Russell [1968, c1939] xxi, 408 p. (Studies in American
    Negro life) E185.93.M6P6 1968
      Bibliography: p. [375]-380.

      1729
    Rogers, Joel A. Nature knows no color-line; research into the
    Negro ancestry in the white race. New York [1952] 242 p. illus.
    HT1581.R6

      1730
    Rose, Arnold M. The Negro in America. With a foreword by Gunnar
    Myrdal. New York, Harper & Row [1964] xxxiv, 324 p. map. (Harper
    torchbooks. The University library) E185.6.R75 1964
      "TB3048."
      "The condensed version of Gunnar Myrdal’s _An American
      Dilemma_."
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1731
    Stewart, Maxwell S. The Negro in America. [Rev. ed. New York,
    Public Affairs Committee, 1962] 28 p. illus. (Public affairs
    pamphlet no. 95) E185.6.M952 1962
      "[Summarizes Gunnar Myrdal’s] two-volume report entitled _An
      American Dilemma_ (1944), and brings this material up to date
      on the basis of recent Supreme Court decisions and the 1960
      census."

      1732
    Thompson, Daniel C. The Negro leadership class. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice Hall [1963] 174 p. (A Spectrum book)
    F379.N5T45
      Includes bibliography.

      1733
    U.S. _Bureau of the Census._ Negro population 1790-1915.
    Washington, Govt. Print. Off., 1918. 844 p. diagrs., maps,
    tables. [HA205.A33] [TR: E185.U56]
      "Prepared by Dr. John Cummings in the Division of Revision and
      Results, under the general supervision of Dr. Joseph A.
      Hill."—"Letter of transmittal," p. 13.
      Reprint issued by Arno Press, 1968.

      1734
    U.S. _Bureau of the Census._ Negroes in the United States.
    Washington, Govt. Print. Off., 1904. 333 p. charts, diagrs.,
    front. (_Its_ Bulletin 8) HA201. 1900.A12 no. 8 E185.6.U58

      1735
    U.S. _Bureau of the Census._ Negroes in the United States.
    Washington, Govt. Print. Off., 1915. 207 p. diagrs., maps,
    tables. (_Its_ Bulletin 129) HA201.1900.A12 no. 129 E185.6.U585

      1736
    U.S. _Bureau of the Census._ Negroes in the United States,
    1920-32. Prepared under the supervision of Z. R. Pettet, chief
    statistician for agriculture, by Charles E. Hall, specialist in
    Negro statistics. Washington, U. S. Govt. Print. Off., 1935.
    xvi, 845 p. diagrs., maps, tables. HA205.A33 1920-32
      "This report supplements the volume, ’Negro Population in the
      United States, 1790-1915,’ published by the Bureau of the
      Census in 1918."—p. iii.

      1737
    Washington, Booker T. The future of the American Negro. Boston,
    Small, Maynard, 1899. 244 p. port. E185.6.W313

      1738
    Weaver, Robert C. Dilemmas of urban America. Cambridge, Mass.,
    Harvard University Press, 1965. 138 p. (The Godkin lectures at
    Harvard University, 1965) HT175.U6W4
      "Based on the Godkin lectures ... delivered at Harvard
      University."
      Bibliographical references included in "Notes" (p. [121]-131).

      1739
    Weaver, Robert C. The urban complex; human values in urban life.
    Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1964. 297 p. HT123.W38
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1740
    Wiley, Bell I. Southern Negroes, 1861-1865. [2d ed.] New York,
    Rinehart [1953, c1938] 366 p. illus. (Yale historical
    publications. Miscellany, 31) E185.2.W65 1953

      1741
    Williams, John G., _of Allendale, S.C._ "De ole plantation."
    Charleston, S.C., Walker, Evans, & Cogswell Co., Printers, 1895.
    67 p. E185.93.S7W7
      Contents.—Preface.—An old-time Saturday night meeting.—Brudder
      Coteny’s sermons.—Glimpses of a vanished past: Two pictures of
      old plantation life.

      1742
    Woodson, Carter G. A century of Negro migration. New York,
    Russell & Russell [1969] 221 p. maps. E185.9.W89 1969
      Reprint of the 1918 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 193-211.

      1743
    Woodson, Carter G. The rural Negro. New York, Russell & Russell
    [1969] xvi, 265 p. illus. E185.86.W896 1969
      Reprint of the 1930 ed.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1744
    Woofter, Thomas J., _ed._ Negro problems in cities; a study made
    under the direction of T. J. Woofter, Jr. Garden City, N.Y.,
    Doubleday, Doran [c1928] 284 p. diagrs., form, maps. E185.86.W91
      "The Institute of Social and Religious Research ... is
      responsible for this publication."
      Contents.—pt. 1. Neighborhoods, by T. J. Woofter, Jr.—pt. 2.
      Housing, by Madge Headley.—pt. 3. Schools, by W. A.
      Daniel.—pt. 4. Recreation, by H. J. McGuinn.




37—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Children


      1745
    Clark, Kenneth B. Prejudice and your child. 2d ed., enl. Boston,
    Beacon Press [1963] 247 p. (A Beacon paperback) BF723.R3C5 1963
      Includes bibliography.

      1746
    Coles, Robert. Children of crisis; a study of courage and fear.
    Boston, Little, Brown [1967] xiv, 401 p. illus. E185.61.C66
      "An Atlantic: Monthly press book."
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1747
    Fanshel, David. A study in Negro adoption. Commentary by
    Alexander J. Allen. New York, Child Welfare League of America,
    1957. 108 p. tables. HV875.F2

      1748
    Goff, Regina M. Problems and emotional difficulties of Negro
    children as studied in selected communities and attributed by
    parents and children to the fact that they are Negro. New York,
    Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University,
    1949. 93 p. (Columbia University. Teachers College.
    Contributions to education, no. 960) E185.89.C3G6 1949a LB5.C8
    no. 960
      Issued also as thesis, Columbia University.
      Bibliography: p. 89.

      1749
    Goodman, Mary E. Race awareness in young children. With an
    introduction by Kenneth B. Clark. New, rev. ed. New York,
    Collier Books [1964] 351 p. map. BF723.R3G6 1964
      "Notes and references": p. 331-342.

      1750
    Gula, Martin. Quest for equality, the story of how six
    institutions opened their doors to serve Negro children and
    their families. [Washington, U.S. Dept. of Health, Education,
    and Welfare, Welfare Administration, Children’s Bureau; for sale
    by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off., 1966] 50 p.
    illus. (U.S. Children’s Bureau. Publication no. 441) HV873.G8
    HV741.A32 no. 441
      Includes bibliographies.

      1751
    Henton, Comradge L., _and_ Edward E. Johnson. Relationship
    between self-concepts of Negro elementary-school children and
    their academic achievement, intelligence, interests, and
    manifest anxiety. Baton Rouge, La., Southern University, Dept.
    of Psychology [1964?] 78 leaves. LB1131.H386
      Cooperative Research Project no. 1592, performed pursuant to a
      contract with the U.S. Office of Education.
      Bibliography: leaves [76]-78.

      1752
    Jackson, Luther P. Poverty’s children, [n.p., CROSS-TELL] 1966.
    42 leaves. HN80.W3J3
      Based on the study findings of the 1960-64 Child Rearing Study
      (CRS) of Low Income Families in the District of Columbia.

      1753
    Price, Arthur Cooper. A Rorschach study of the development of
    personality structure in white and Negro children in a
    southeastern community. Genetic psychology monographs, v. 65,
    Feb. 1962: 3-52. tables. LB1101.G4 v.65
      "Based upon a doctoral dissertation at the University of
      Florida."
      Bibliography: p. 51-52.

      1754
    Sanders, Wiley B., _ed._ Negro child welfare in North Carolina;
    a Rosenwald study, directed by Wiley Britton Sanders. Montclair,
    N.J., Patterson Smith, 1968 [c1933] xiv, 326 p. illus.
    (Patterson Smith reprint series in criminology, law enforcement,
    and social problems, publication no. 18) E185.86.S27 1968
      "Under the joint auspices of the North Carolina State Board of
      Charities and Public Welfare and the School of Public Welfare,
      the University of North Carolina."




38—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Crime and Delinquency


      1755
    Bonger, Willem A. Race and crime. Translated from the Dutch by
    Margaret Mathews Hordyk. Montclair, N.J., Patterson Smith, 1969.
    130 p. (Patterson Smith reprint series in criminology, law
    enforcement, and social problems, no. 34) HV6191.B62 1969
      Reprint of the 1943 ed.
      Translation of _Ras en misdaad._
      Bibliography: p. [109]-123.

      1756
    Carter, Dan T. Scottsboro; a tragedy of the American South.
    Baton Rouge, Louisiana State University Press [1969] 431 p.
    illus., ports. KF224.S34C3
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1757
    Chamberlain, Bernard P. The Negro and crime in Virginia.
    [Charlottesville] University of Virginia, 1936. 132 p. tables.
    (Publications of the University of Virginia. Phelps-Stokes
    fellowship papers, no. 15) E185.93.V8C46

      1758
    DuBois, William E. B., _ed._ Some notes on Negro crime,
    particularly in Georgia; report of a social study made under the
    direction of Atlanta University; together with the Proceedings
    of the Ninth Conference for the Study of the Negro Problems,
    held at Atlanta University, May 24, 1904. Atlanta, Atlanta
    University Press, 1904. 68 p. diagrs. (Atlanta University
    publications, no. 9) E185.5.A88 no. 9 [E185.65.D81]
      Bibliography: p. vi-viii.
      Contents.—The problem of crime, by F. B. Sanborn.—Crime and
      slavery.—Crime and the census.—Extent of Negro crime.—Crime in
      cities, by M. N. Work.—Crime in Georgia.—Atlanta and Savannah,
      by H. H. Proctor and M. N. Work.—Crime in Augusta, by A. G.
      Coombs and L. D. Davis.—What Negroes think of crime.—Causes of
      Negro crime.—Some conclusions.—The Ninth
      conference.—Resolutions.—Index.

      1759
    Kephart, William M. Racial factors and urban law enforcement.
    Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Press [1957] 209 p.
    tables. HV8138.K45
      Bibliography: p. 207-209.

      1759a
    Lightfoot, Robert M. Negro crime in a small urban community.
    [Charlottesville] University of Virginia, 1934. 85, [1] p. plan.
    (Publications of the University of Virginia. Phelps-Stokes
    fellowship papers, no. 12) E185.93.V8L5
      Bibliography: p. [86].

      1760
    Towler, Juby E. The police role in racial conflicts.
    Springfield, Ill., C. C. Thomas [1964] 119 p. illus. HV8069.T6

      1761
    U.S. _Commission on Civil Rights._ Law enforcement; a report on
    equal protection in the South. [Washington, For sale by the
    Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off.] 1965. 188 p. DLC-LL
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1762
    Wolfgang, Marvin E. Crime and race; conceptions and
    misconceptions.
    New York, Institute of Human Relations Press, American Jewish
    Committee [1964] 71 p. ([American Jewish Committee] Institute of
    Human Relations. Pamphlet series, no. 6) HV6197.U5W6
      "References": p. 64-71.




39—SOCIAL CONDITIONS—Family


      1763
    Bernard, Jessie S. Marriage and family among Negroes. Englewood
    Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1966] 160 p. illus. (A Spectrum
    book) E185.86.B4
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1764
    Billingsley, Andrew. Black families in white America [by] Andrew
    Billingsley, with the assistance of Amy Tate Billingsley.
    Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall [1968] 218 p. illus., map.
    (A Spectrum book) E185.86.B5
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1765
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. The free Negro family. New York, Arno
    Press, 1968. 75 p. maps. (The American Negro, his history and
    literature) E185.86.F73 1968
      Reprint of the 1932 ed.
      Bibliography: p. 73-75.

      1766
    Frazier, Edward Franklin. The Negro family in the United States.
    Rev. and abridged ed. Foreword by Nathan Glazer. Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press [1966] xxii, 372 p. E185.86.F74 1966
      Revised and abridged edition first published in 1948.
      Bibliographical footnotes.

      1767
    Jeffers, Camille. Living poor; a participant observer study of
    priorities and choices. With an introduction by Hylan Lewis. Ann
    Arbor, Mich., Ann Arbor Publishers, 1967. 123 p. HN80.W3J4
      A report to the Child Rearing Study of Low Income Families in
      the District of Columbia, a project sponsored by the Health
      and Welfare Council of the National Capital Area.

      1768
    Rainwater, Lee, _and_ William L. Yancey. The Moynihan report and
    the politics of controversy; a Trans-action social science and
    public policy report. Including the full text of The Negro
    family: the case for national action by Daniel Patrick Moynihan.
    Cambridge, Mass., M.I.T. Press [1967] xviii, 493 p. illus.
    E185.86.U54R3
      Includes bibliographical references.

      1769
    U.S. _Dept. of Labor. Office of Policy Planning and Research._
    The Negro family, the case for national action. [Washington, For
    sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. Govt. Print. Off.] 1965. 78 p.
    illus. [E185.86.U52]
      Bibliography: p. 51-53.
      The Moynihan report.

      1770
    Wisconsin. _Governor’s Commission on Human Rights._ Negro
    families in rural Wisconsin; a study of their community life.
    Madison, 1959. 72 p. illus. E185.93.W58A54




40—SPORTS


      1771
    Brown, James N. Off my chest, by Jimmy Brown with Myron Cope.
    Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1964. 230 p. illus., ports.
    GV939.B75A3

      1772
    Cottrell, John. Muhammad Ali, who once was Cassius Clay. New
    York, Funk & Wagnalls [1968, c1967] 363 p. ports. GV1132.C55C6
    1968
      First published in London under title: _Man of Destiny._

      1773
    Fleischer, Nathaniel S. Black dynamite, the story of the Negro
    in the prize ring from 1782 to 1938; with numerous
    illustrations. [New York, Printed by C. J. O’Brien, c1938-47] 5
    v. illus., plates, ports. ("The Ring" athletic library)
    GV1131.F65
      Vol. 2 has also special title: "Jolting Joe," the amazing
      story of Joe Louis and his rise to world heavyweight title;
      "Homicide Hank," the socking saga of Henry Armstrong; v. 3:
      "The three colored aces," George Dixon, "Little Chocolate,"
      Joe Gans, "The Old Master," Joe Walcott, "The Barbados Demon,"
      and several contemporaries; v. 4: "Fighting furies," story of
      the golden era of Jack Johnson, Sam Langford and their
      contemporaries; v. 5: Sockers in sepia; a continuation of the
      drama of the Negro in pugilistic competition.

      1774
    Henderson, Edwin B. The Negro in sports. Rev. ed. Washington,
    Associated Publishers, 1949. xvi, 507 p. illus., ports. GV161.H4
    1949

      1775
    Louis, Joe. How to box, edited by Edward J. Mallory.
    Philadelphia, D. McKay Co. [1948] 64 p. illus. GV1137.L8

      1776
    Mann, Arthur W. Branch Rickey: American in action. Boston,
    Houghton Mifflin, 1957. 312 p. illus. GV865.R45M3
      Includes a few pages on Negroes in baseball.

      1777
    Olsen, Jack. The black athlete: a shameful story; the myth of
    integration in American sport. New York, Time-Life Books [1968]
    223 p. GV713.O4

      1778
    Robinson, John R. Baseball has done it. Edited by Charles
    Dexter. Philadelphia, Lippincott [1964] 216 p. GV865.R6A2

      1779
    Robinson, Louie. Arthur Ashe, tennis champion. Garden City,
    N.Y., Doubleday [1967] 136 p. ports. (Doubleday signal books)
    GV994.A7R6

      1780
    Young, Andrew S. N. ("Doc"). Negro firsts in sports. With
    illustrations by Herbert Temple. Chicago, Johnson Pub. Co.
    [1963] 301 p. illus. GV697.A1Y6

      1781
    Zinkoff, Dave. Around the world with the Harlem Globetrotters,
    by Dave Zinkoff with Edgar Williams. Foreword by Abe Saperstein;
    illustrated with photographs. Philadelphia, Macrae Smith Co.
    [1953] 218 p. illus. GV885.Z5




INDEX


This is primarily an author and subject index. Numbers refer to entries.
References to books about persons or associations are preceded by the
word "about," to distinguish them from books by those persons or
associations.

Abbott, Martin, 883

Abbott, Robert S., about, 134, 261

Abolitionists, 764, 778, 824, 843, 860, 945

    biography (collective), 100
    biography (individual), 158, 161, 189, 205, 215, 242, 266
    _See also_ Antislavery movements

Abrahams, Roger D., 673, 1375

Abrahamson, Julia, 1

Abrams, Charles, 493- 494

Abramson, Doris E., 948

Achille, Louis T., 799

Actors, 140, 184, 247, 667- 669, 672, 1615.

    _See also_ Comedians

Adams, C. C., 1656

Adams, Edward C. L., 674

Adams, John Quincy, about, 251

Adams, Russell L., 98

Adams, Walter, 604

Adler, Mortimer J., ed., 770

Adoff, Arnold, comp., 995, 1228

Adoption, 1747

Aerospace industries, 476

Africa, 783, 869

    bibliography, 14, 34, 63
    biography (collective), 98
    colonization, 787, 1000, 1003- 1004
    history, 758
    music, 1355
    relations with the U.S., 329
    _See also_ Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone

African Methodist Episcopal Church, 81, 1687, 1693, 1701

    biography (collective), 81, 149
    biography (individual), 284, 303, 306

Ahmann, Mathew H., ed., 996, 1661

Aikin, Charles, ed., 1402

Airmen, 1318, 1338

Alabama, 684, 1609, 1613a, 1625

    civil rights, 201, 270, 322, 1501
    economic conditions, 409, 553
    education, 540, 553, 556, 601, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 684
    politics, 195, 1425, 1447, 1449
    bibliography, 13
    slavery, 155, 857, 863
    University
      Bureau of Educational Research, 540
      Bureau of Public Administration, 1446

Albany Institute of History and Art, 82

Alcohol, 1720

Aldridge, Ira F., about, 140, 247

Aldridge, William, 246

Alexander, Albert A., 4

Alexander, Charles, 1315

Alexander, Richard D., 435

Ali, Muhammad, 1772

Allen, Alexander J., 1747

Allen, Elizabeth L., ed., 72

Allen, James E., 1592

Allen, James S., 884

Allen, Richard, Bishop, about, 303

Allen, Walter C., 151

Allen, William F., comp., 1344

Allport, Gordon W., 1682

Alpha Phi Alpha, 1397

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, 27

American Academy of Political and Social Science, Philadelphia, 1463-
1464

American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass., 630

American Baptist Publication Society, 1658

American Civil Liberties Union, 494

American Colonization Society, about, 787

American Council of Learned Societies Devoted to Humanistic Studies,
Committee on Negro Studies, 3, 24

American Council on Education, American Youth Commission, 40, 1719

American Council on Race Relations, 494

American Folklore Society, 26, 698, 703

American Historical Association, 458, 749, 875, 877a

American Institute for Marxist Studies, 809- 810

American Jewish Committee, Institute of Human Relations, 1570, 1762

American Library Association, Library Administration Division, 603

American Management Association, 451

American Missionary Association, 559a

American Negro Academy, Washington, D.C., 731, 1403, 1415

American Reform Tract and Book Society, Cincinnati, 155

American Revolution, 117, 765, 1329- 1330, 1342- 1343

American Society of African Culture, 978

Ames, William C., 309

Amistad (Schooner), 854

Amistad Research Center, 20

Anderson, Archibald W., ed., 566

Anderson, Harry H., 1628

Anderson, Howard R., ed., 795

Anderson, James K., 450

Anderson, Margaret, 541

Anderson, Marian, 152, 1347

    about, 118, 140, 145, 259

Anderson, William T., 1315

Andrews, Benny, illus., 1228

Andrews, Sidney, 884a

Angelo, Frank, 182

Annuals, 74- 75, 1701

Anthologies, 975- 994, 1275

    plays, 1209, 1221, 1223- 1224
    poetry, 1228- 1230, 1234, 1240, 1244, 1251, 1255, 1258, 1264,
    1268- 1272, 1274- 1275
    short stories, 1051, 1068, 1109

Anti-Defamation League, 365, 507, 509, 568, 593, 1013

Antisemitism, 1518, 1524

Antislavery movements, 185, 269, 300, 812, 819, 826- 827, 830, 833, 839,
846, 851, 861- 862, 864, 877, 882

    bibliography, 10, 35
    _See also_ Abolitionists, Emancipation, Underground railroad

Aplin, Norita, 711

Apprentices, 462, 466, 471, 488

Aptheker, Herbert, 713- 714, 808- 810, 1312

    ed., 712

Archives, 3, 24

Arctic exploration, 218

Arkansas

    education, 544, 551, 559, 635, 652, 1508
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 690, 692

Armour, Alexander W., 705

Armstrong, Henry, 153

Armstrong, Louis ("Satchmo"), about, 140

Art, 56, 82- 97, 955

Arter, Rhetta M., 495

Artists, 82, 85, 87, 90- 93, 96- 97, 951- 952, 1372

Ashby, William M., 1044a

Ashe, Arthur, 154

    about, 1779

Ashmore, Harry S., 542, 1404, 1465

Associates in Negro Folk Education, 86- 87, 410, 954

Associates of Doctor Thomas Bray for Founding Clerical Libraries and
Supporting Negro Schools, 630

Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, 137, 427, 442, 452-
453, 492, 671, 802- 803, 924- 925, 1302, 1340, 1372, 1390, 1398

Associations. _See_ Organizations

Aswell, James R., ed., 710

Athletes, 101, 150, 1773- 1774, 1777 -1780.

    _See also_ Sports, names of sports, e.g., Football

Atkins, James A., 1466

Atkins, Simon G., about, 132

Atkinson, Carolyn, 1629

Atlanta, 193

Atlanta University, 9, 403, 430, 577- 578, 1291, 1665, 1758

Attaway, William, 1045

    about, 966

Attucks, Crispus, about, 120

Aukofer, Frank A., 1593

Austin, Frank E., 1467

Authors, 950- 952, 956- 957, 965- 966, 978, 983, 991

    biography (individual), 175, 180, 225- 226, 252, 302, 305
    _See also_ Literature, ——history and criticism; Playwrights,
    Poets

Autobiography. _See_ Biography and autobiography

Automobile industry and trade, 477

Avins, Alfred, comp., 931

    ed., 496

Badger, Henry G., 543

Bailey, Harry A., ed., 1405

Bailey, Pearl, 156

Baker, Augusta, 2, 42

Baker, George, about, 262

Baker, Josephine, about, 140

Baker, Newton D., 1332

Baker, Ray S., 1468

Balcolm, Lowell L., illus., 1099

Baldridge, Cyrus L., illus., 1055

Baldwin, James, 996- 997, 1046- 1050, 1205- 1206, 1469- 1470, 1484

    about, 966

Ball, Charles, 157

Ball, Edward D., ed., 638

Ballowe, Hewitt L., 675

Baltimore, 1418, 1622, 1627

    Commission on Human Relations, 618- 619, 1622
    education, 618- 619

_Baltimore Afro-American_, 1051

Baltimore Urban League, 1627

Bancroft, Frederic, 811

Banfield, Edward C., 518, 1406

Banks and banking, 406, 408, 427

Banneker, Benjamin, about, 120, 207

Banton, Michael P., 1471

Baptist Foreign Missionary Convention of the U.S., 1680

Baptists, 293, 307, 1671, 1680- 1681

    education, 1678, 1695
    missions, 1656
    sermons, 1658, 1680a

Barber, Carroll G., 20

Barbour, Floyd B., comp., 310

Bardolph, Richard, 99

Barndt, Joseph R., 1702

Barnes, Gilbert H., 812

Barnett, Moneta, illus., 769

Barrett, Janie P., about, 114, 134

Barth, Ernest A. T., 521

Bartlett, Irving H., 158, 1594

Barton, Rebecca C., 99a

Baseball, 150, 174, 245, 249- 250, 275- 276, 278, 1776, 1778

Basketball, 1781

Bates, Daisy G., 544

    about, 145

Beam, Lura, 545

Beardwood, Roger, 415

Beasley, Delilah L., 1595

Becker, Gary S., 436

Beckwourth, James P., 159

Bede, Brother, 546

Bedichek, Roy, 680

Belafonte, Harry, 97

    about, 140

Belasco, David, 279

Belfrage, Sally, 311

Bell, Inge P., 1382

Bell, Malcolm, illus., 708

Bell, Muriel, illus., 708

Bell, Thomas F., about, 220

Bell, William K., 396

Bellegarde, Dantes, 799

Benét, Stephen Vincent, 1280

Bennett, Elaine C., 3

Bennett, Hal, 1052

Bennett, John, 676

Bennett, Lerone, 100, 160, 715- 716, 998, 1472

Bent, Michael J., 1295

Bentley, George R., 885

Berger, Morroe, 932

Berman, Daniel M., 547

Bernard, Jacqueline, 161

Bernard, Jessie S., 1763

Bernstein, Abraham A., 548

Bernstein, Barton J., ed., 999

Berry, A. W., 1419

Berry, Brewton, 1703

Berson, Lenora E., 1570

Bethune, Mary J. McLeod, about, 114, 118, 222

Bibb, Henry, 162

Bibliographies, 1- 63, 68, 74, 517, 749, 756, 960- 961, 965, 979

Bicknell, Marguerite E., 64

Biggers, John T., illus., 680

Bigman, Stanley K., 1289

Billingsley, Amy T., 1764

Billingsley, Andrew, 1764

Billington, Ray A., 580, 1352

Biographical dictionaries, 69, 73, 78- 80, 121, 131

Biography and autobiography, 98- 308

    collective biography, 71, 81, 98- 150, 459, 591, 656, 723, 731,
    746, 829, 831, 944, 1407, 1424, 1445, 1460, 1592, 1603, 1773-
    1774
    individual biography, 151- 308.
    _See also_ under specific subjects, e.g., Jazz musicians
    ——biography (individual); Slavery, ——biographies and narratives

Birmingham, Ala., 556, 1625

Bishops, 149, 173, 199, 303.

    _See also_ Clergymen

Bittle, William E., 717

Bivins, Horace W., 1315

Bivins, S. Thomas, 383

Black Muslims, 237a, 1026- 1627, 1469, 1498, 1682- 1683, 1689

    bibliography, 62

Black power, 195, 310, 318, 320, 348, 362, 381, 716, 1500, 1694, 1702

_Black Star_, 364

Blair, Gertrude, 386

Blair, Lewis H., 397

Bland, James A., about, 181

Blaustein, Albert P., 549- 550

    comp., 312

Bleiweiss, Robert M., 163

Blood, Robert O., 437

Blood banks, 211, 237

Bloomfield, Neil J., ed., 372

Blossom, Virgil T., 551

Blues. _See_ Jazz music

Blythe, LeGette, 177

Boas, Frank, 697

Boggs, James, 1704

Boles, Robert, 1053

Boley, Okla., 717

Bolling _v._ Sharpe, 547

Bond, Frederick W., 665

Bond, Horace M., 552- 553, 1244

Bone, Robert A., 949

Bonger, Willem A., 1755

Bonner, T. D., ed., 159

Bontemps, Arna W., 7, 101- 103, 718, 1054- 1056a

    comp., 1230
    ed., 210, 696, 1229, 1258

Booker, Simeon, 1705

Borders, William H., about, 193

Boston, 1604, 1648

    education, 612

Bosworth, William, 1057

Botkin, Benjamin A., ed., 677, 829

Botume, Elizabeth H., 886

Bouma, Donald H., 554

Bowdoin College, Museum of Fine Arts, 83

Bowerman, Charles E., 564

Bowers, Lessie, 384

Boxing, 153, 194, 239, 254- 255, 265, 308, 1225, 1772- 1773, 1775

Boyar, Burt, 184

Boyar, Jane, 184

Boyd, Malcolm, 1473

Boykin, James H., 719

Boyle, Sarah P., 1474- 1475

Brackett, Jeffrey R., 813

Braden, Anne, 1476

Bradford, Amory, 398

Bradford, Perry, 1345

Bradford, Roark, 677a- 678, 1207

Bradford, Sarah E. H., 164

Bradley, Mary H., 235

Bradshaw, Clifford A., 113

Bragg, George F., 1657

Braithwaite, William S. B., 1231- 1233, 1263

    about, 952

Branch, Hettye W., 165

Brawley, Benjamin G., 104, 166, 951- 952

    ed., 950

Brawley, E. M., ed., 1658

Bray, Douglas W., 450

Brazos Valley, Tex., 682

Breitman, George, ed., 1026

Brenford, Robert J., 26

Brewer, John Mason, 680- 683, 1407

    comp., 679
    ed., 1234
    about, 172

Brickman, William W., ed., 555

Briggs, Vernon M., 462

Bright, Jean M., ed., 972

Brink, William J., 313, 1477

Brock, William R., 887

Broderick, Francis L., 167

    ed., 720

Brogan, Denis W., 1408

Bronz, Stephen H., 953

Brooke, Edward W., 1409

    about, 127

Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C., 405

Brooks, Alexander D., 4

Brooks, Charles H., 1383

Brooks, Gwendolyn, 1058, 1235- 1236

Brooks, John C., ed., 1650

Brooks, Maxwell R., 1457

Broom, Leonard, 721

Brotz, Howard, 1659

    ed., 1000

Brown, Aaron, ed., 631

Brown, Arthur M., 1315

Brown, Charles A., 556

Brown, Charlotte H., about, 114

Brown, Claude, 168

Brown, Earl L., 1313

Brown, Frank L., 1059

Brown, Hallie Q., comp., 105

Brown, Hugh V., 557- 558

Brown, Ina C., 722

Brown, James N., 1771

Brown, John (abolitionist), about, 189, 861

Brown, John (slave), about, 169

Brown, Lawrence, 1359- 1360

Brown, Lloyd L., 1060

Brown, Oliver, appellant, 579

Brown, Robert R., Bishop, 559

Brown, Roscoe C., comp., 77

Brown, Samuel Joe, 1385

Brown, Sterling A., 954, 1237

    ed., 975

Brown, Warren H., 5

Brown, William G., 1409a

Brown, William W., 106, 723, 1061, 1314

Brown _v._ Board of Education of Topeka, 547, 579

Browning, Colleen, illus., 117

Brownlee, Frederick L., 559a

Bruce, Blanche Kelso, about, 120

Bruce, John E., comp., 107

Bruce, Kathleen, 814

Bruce, Philip A., 888

Bruère, Martha B., illus., 707

Bryan, Ashley, illus., 305

Bryant, Lawrence C., 108- 109

Buckle, Richard, ed., 170

Buckler, Helen, 171

Buckmaster, Henrietta, pseud., 815, 889

Bullock, Henry A., 399, 560

Bullock, Ralph W., 110

Bunche, Ralph J., 1478

Buni, Andrew, 1410

Burck, Gilbert, 415

Burckel, Christian E., 69

Bureau of National Affairs, Washington, D.C., 314

Burgess, Margaret E., 1596

Burke, Inez M., 1223

Burnham, Louis E., 258

Burns, William H., 315

Burroughs, Margaret T., illus., 195

Burroughs, Nannie H., 523

    about, 114

Business, 427- 434, 1459a

Business education, 433

Businessmen, 427, 429- 433, 447, 1459a

Butcher, Margaret J., 955

Byrd, Harry F., 181

Byrd, James W., 172

CORE. _See_ Congress of Racial Equality

CROSS-TELL. _See_ Communicating Research on the Urban Poor

Cable, George W., 316- 317, 1563

Cade, John B., 173

Cain, Alfred E., 113

    ed., 724

Caldwell, Dista H., 561

Caldwell, Erskine, 1479

California, 221, 1595, 1597, 1635

    Arts Commission, 89
    Dept. of Industrial Relations, Division of Labor Statistics and
    Research, 1597
    education, 606
    employment, 488
    Governor’s Commission on the Los Angeles Riots, 1571- 1572
    housing, 513
    race relations, 398
    riots, 1571- 1575
    State Fair Employment Practice Commission, 1597
    University Bancroft Library, 1595
      Institute of Governmental Studies, 1635
      Institute of Industrial Relations, 480
      Survey Research Center, 1518
    University at Los Angeles
      Art Galleries, Dickson Art Center, 89
      Dept. of Journalism, 1456
      Institute of Government and Public Affairs, 413
    University, Davis, 89

Caliver, Ambrose, 562- 563

Callis, Myra C., 452

Calverton, Victor F., ed., 976

Calvin, Mich., 690, 692

Camden Co., N.J., 549

Campanella, Roy, 174

Campbell, Angus, 1586

Campbell, Charles, 230a

Campbell, E. Simms, illus., 1237

Campbell, Ernest Q., 564

Campbell, Tunis G., 385

Campbell, Will D., 1660

Canada, 774, 907

Cannon, Alice, 693

Cape Fear River Valley, N.C., 900

Carawan, Candie, 1346

Carawan, Guy, 1346

Carleton, William G., 1440

Carmer, Carl L., 674, 684

Carmichael, Bennie, 638

Carmichael, Stokely, 318

Carnegie Institution of Washington, Division of Historical Research, 820

Caroline Co., Va., 705

Carruth, Eleanore, 415

Carter, Dan T., 1756

Carter, Hodding, 890, 1480

Carter, Wilmoth A., 319, 429

Carver, George Washington

    about, 118, 134, 191, 221
    bibliography, 12

Cashin, Herschel V., 1315

Cass, Donn A., 1384

Cass Co., Mich., 1613

Cate, Margaret D., 1653

Catholic authors, bibliography, 45

Catholic Church, 119, 199, 229, 375, 546, 1661, 1664, 1672

Catholic Interracial Council, 229

Catterall, Helen H. T., ed., 933

Cattle trade, 165

Caughey, John W., 725

Cayton, Horace R., 438, 1607

Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, 344, 1481

Center for Urban Education, 22

Central State College, Wilberforce, Ohio

    about, 1617
    Library, 18b
    _See also_ Wilberforce University, Wilberforce, Ohio

Chamberlain, Bernard P., 1757

Chambers, Bradford, comp., 320

Chambers, Herbert A., ed., 1347

Chambers, Lucille A., ed., 726

Chamerovzow, Louis A., ed., 169

Chaney, James E., about, 124

Chapel Hill, N.C., 1608a

Chapman, Abraham, 6

    comp., 977

Chappell, Louis W., 685

Charleston, S.C., 676, 847

Charleston, W. Va., 537

Charlottesville, Va., 1759a

Charters, Ann, illus., 1238

Charters, Samuel B., 1238, 1348

Chase, Lucy, 923

Chase, Sarah, 923

Chastain, Thomas, 1062

Cherokee Indians, 246

Cherry, Gwendolyn, 111

Chesler, Mark A., 601

Chesnutt, Charles W., 1063- 1067

    about, 175, 952

Chesnutt, Helen M., 175

Chi Eta Phi Sorority, 1390

Chicago, 1395, 1420, 1579, 1598, 1607, 1643, 1663, 1686

    housing, 497, 503, 510, 518
    Illinois National Half-Century Exposition, 1617
    Mayor’s Commission on Human Relations, 497
    Office of Housing and Redevelopment Coordination, 1598
    Plan Commission, 1598
    riots, 1579
    University Center for Policy Study, 1580
      Chicago Community Inventory, 503, 1598
      Law School, 935
      Population Research and Training Center, 528
      _The Chicago Defender_, about, 261

Chicago Historical Society, 1012

Chicago Urban League, 1395

Child, Lydia M. F., 112

Child Rearing Study of Low Income Families in the District of Columbia,
1752, 1767

Child Welfare League of America, 1747

Children, 1745-54, 1767.

    _See also_ Family; Socially handicapped children, Youth

Children’s literature. _See_ Juvenile literature

Children’s writings, 609- 610

Christensen, Mrs. A. M. H., 686

Christian, Kathryn, 727

Christian, Malcolm H., 176

Christmas, Walter, ed., 113

Church. _See_ Religion and the church.

Church and race problems, 229, 321, 375, 498, 510, 529, 559, 1016, 1491,
1552, 1660- 1661, 1675, 1679, 1686, 1690, 1697.

    _See also_ Segregation ——religious aspects; Slavery, ——and the
    church

Cincinnati, 1603

    Public Schools, 728

Cities and towns, 344, 355, 381, 415, 419, 879, 1715, 1738- 1739, 1744

    bibliography, 55
    education, 548, 569, 588, 608, 633, 645, 663
    politics, 1406
    race relations, 1482

Citizens’ Councils, 1480

City University of New York, 90

Civil disobedience, 325a, 1014, 1444, 1591

Civil Liberties Educational Foundation, 4

Civil rights, 309- 982, 397, 486, 761, 931- 932, 937, 1340, 1400, 1414,
1434, 1447, 1450, 1463, 1507- 1508, 1511, 1516, 1590, 1704, 1732, 1761

    bibliography, 4, 52
    biography and autobiography, 135, 145, 187, 201, 208, 229, 244,
    256, 270, 354
    essays and addresses, 310, 323, 347, 720, 1001, 1005, 1007,
    1013, 1015, 1017, 1022- 1023, 1025- 1026, 1033, 1036, 1038,
    1041, 1456
    history, 315, 319- 320, 353, 373
      sources, 312, 332, 334
    humor, 1201
    pictorial works, 337
    Southern States, 326, 340, 356, 360, 369, 374, 380, 575, 1401,
    1608a

Civil Rights Act of _1964_, 314, 330, 1022

Civil rights workers, 124, 356

Civil service, 454, 461, 467, 478.

    _See also_ Government officials and employees

Civil War, 288, 763- 764, 893, 908, 915, 923, 1312, 1331

    causes, 859
    fiction, 1184
    Kentucky, 730, 791
    Maryland, 796
    Middle West, 794
    Negro troops, 1285, 1314, 1316- 1317, 1320, 1337, 1340- 1343
    New York (City), 833
    sources, 751

Clark, Alexander G., 1385

Clark, Alfred T., 725

Clark, Dennis, 1482

Clark, Henry, 498

Clark, Kenneth B., 565, 636, 1001, 1483- 1484, 1570, 1745, 1749

    ed., 1005

Clark, Mary T., 321

Clark, Peter W., 1599

Clark, Septima P., 177

Clarke, Jacquelyne J., 322

Clarke, John H., ed., 1002, 1068, 1600

Claspy, Everett, 1601

Clay, Cassius Marcellus, about, 1772

Clayton, Edward T., 1411

Cleaver, Eldridge, 1485- 1486

Cleaves, Mary W., 19

Cleghorn, Reese, 1452

Clemons, Lulamae, 1706

Clergymen, 1042, 1667

    autobiography, 217, 274, 284, 306, 848
    biography (collective), 80- 81, 119, 149
    biography (individual), 173, 193, 199, 303.
    _See also_ King, Martin Luther, about

Cleveland, 377, 1454

    Public Schools, 711

Clift, Virgil A., ed., 566

Clough, Benjamin C., 1594

Clowes, Richard M., 725

Cobb, William Montague, 1286- 1288

Cobb, Price M., 1293

Coffin, Levi, 816

Cogley, John, 1481

Cohen, Haskell, 239

Cohen, Irving S., 760

Cohen,Jacob, 329

Cohen, Jerry, 1573

Cohn, David L., 1707

Colby, Clinton E., 21

Cole, Nathaniel (Nat "King"), about, 140

Coleman, Edward M., ed., 1269

Coleman, James S., 567

Coleman, John Winston, 817

Coleridge-Taylor, Samuel, about, 120

Coles, Robert, 568, 1746

College Entrance Examination Board, 584

Colleges. _See_ Universities and colleges

Collins, Charles W., 934

Collins, Mary E., 502

Collins, Winfield H., 1487

Colonization, 717, 774, 787, 1000, 1003- 1004

Columbia University

    Conservation of Human Resources Project, 583
    Council for Research in the Social Sciences, 43, 1719a
    Graduate School of Business, 407, 428
    Teachers College, 563, 574, 598, 627, 664
      Bureau of Publications, 530, 608, 615, 663, 1748
      Institute of Higher Education, 615

Comedians, 140, 184, 208, 279, 335

Commager, Henry S., comp., 323

Commission on Race and Housing, 499, 505, 508, 514, 524

Communicating Research on the Urban Poor, 1752

Communism, 1038, 1389, 1394, 1419, 1434, 1442

Community leadership, 349, 1427, 1596, 1732

Conant, James B., 569

Concklin, Seth, about, 857

Condition of slaves, 133, 828- 829, 831, 845, 858, 875

Conference for the Study of the Negro Problems

    4th, Atlanta, _1899_, 430
    5th, Atlanta, _1900_, 577
    8th, Atlanta, _1903_, 1665
    9th, Atlanta, _1904_, 1758
    10th, Atlanta, _1905_, 9
    11th, Atlanta, _1906_, 1291
    12th, Atlanta, _1907_, 403
    16th, Atlanta, _1911_, 578

Conference of Community Leaders on Equal Employment Opportunity,
Washington, D.C., _1962_, 439

Conference of Negro Writers, 1st, New York, _1959_, 978

Conference on Discrimination and the Law, University of Chicago, _1963_,
935

Conference on Jewish Social Studies, 1488

Conference on Negro-Jewish Relations in the United States, New York,
_1964_, 1488

Congaree River, 674

Congress of Racial Equality, 329, 1382

_The Congressional Globe_, 931

Congressional Quarterly Service, Washington, D.C., 324

_Congressional Record_, 931

Congressmen. _See_ Legislators

Connecticut, 488, 873, 1618a, 1648b

    Commission on Civil Rights, 440, 500- 501, 1489
    housing, 500- 501
    segregation, 1489
    University, Center for Real Estate and Urban Economic Studies,
    517

Connelly, Marcus C., 695, 1207

Connery, Robert H., ed., 1589

Conot, Robert E., 1574

Conrad, Earl, 177a, 729

Conroy, Jack, 102

Consumers, 399, 404, 412

    bibliography, 23

Converts, 246, 1664, 1669

Cook, C. C., 1403

Cook, James G., 1490

Cook, James T., 21

Cooke, Paul P., 325

Cookery, 383- 395

Coombs, A. G., 1758

Cooper, Anna J., 600

Cooper, Mary U., 389

Cooperative movement, 403, 418

Cope, Myron, 1771

Cornell-Tompkins County Committee for Free and Fair Elections in Fayette
County, Tennessee, 1412

Cornely, Paul B., 1289

Cornish, Dudley T., 1316

Corwin, Edward H. L., 1290

Cotner, Robert C., 212

Cotter, Joseph S., 1068a, 1208

Cotton, Ella E., 178

Cottrell, John, 1772

Couch, William, comp., 1209

Coulter, Ellis M., 730, 891, 1413

Council of Social Welfare, Oklahoma City, 1626

Countryman, Vern, ed., 935

Courlander, Harold, 687, 1349

Covarrubias, Miguel, illus., 697, 1353- 1354

Cowboys, 240, 443

Cox, Archibald, 325a

Cox, John H., 1414

Cox, LaWanda C. F., 1414

Cox, Oliver C., 1717

Craig, Tom, 1585

Crain, Robert L., 570

Craven, Avery O., 892

Cregar, Ralph, 1491

Crichlow, Ernest, illus., 213, 288

Crime and delinquency, 1540, 1723, 1754- 1762

Crime and the press, 325a

Crogman, William H., 70

Cromwell, John W., 88, 731, 1415

Cromwell, Otelia, ed., 979

Cronon, Edmund D., 179

Crow Indians, 159

Crowe, Charles R., ed., 893

Crum, Mason, 1602

Crummell, Alexander, 1003- 1004

    about, 120

Crump, Paul, 1069

Crump, Spencer, 1575

Cruse, Harold, 1708

Cuffé, Paul, about, 120

Cullen, Charles, illus., 1239, 1242

Cullen, Countee, 1070- 1071, 1239, 1241- 1243

    ed., 1240
    about, 953, 958

Culp, Daniel W., ed., 980

Cultural Exchange Center, Los Angeles, 94

Culver, Dwight W., 1662

Cumberland Co., N.J., 1644

Cummings, John, 1733

Cunard, Nancy, comp., 981

Cuney, Norris W., about, 212

Cuney, Waring, ed., 1244

Cunningham, Virginia, 180

Current, Richard N., ed., 894

Curry, Jesse E., 1492

Curtin, Thomas J., 633

Cushing, Richard J., Cardinal, 119

Cuthbert, Marion V., 571

Dabbs, James M., 1493

Dabney, Lillian G., 572

Dabney, Wendell P., 1603

Dade Co., Fla., 538

_Daedalus_, 1005

Daly, John J., 181

Daly, Victor, 1071a

Damerell, Reginald G., 573

Dancing, 170, 190, 955

Dancy, John C., 182

Daniel, Bradford, ed., 1006

Daniel, Sadie I., 114

Daniel, Vattel E., 1663

Daniel, William A., 1744

Daniels, John, 1604

Daniels, Jonathan, 1566

Dannett, Sylvia G. L., 115

David, Jay, comp., 116

Davidson, Bruce, illus., 1005

Davie, Maurice R., 732

Davis, Allison, 1709

Davis, Arthur P., ed., 975

Davis, Christopher, 1072

Davis, David B., 818

Davis, Edwin A., 183

    ed., 1616

Davis, Harry E., 1386

Davis, John P., ed., 65

Davis, L. D., 1758

Davis, Lawrence A., 1448

Davis, Ossie, 1210

Davis, Robert E., 400

Davis, Sammy, Jr., 184

    about, 140

Davis, William R., 574

Day, Helen C., 1664

Day, Richard E., 575

Daykin, Jon J., 441

Dayton, Ohio, 1391

Dees, Jesse W., 1494

Degrees, academic, 587

De Jong, Gordon F., 1605

De Knight, Freda, 386

De Land, Clyde O., illus., 1067

Delany, Martin R., 733

Delaware

    education, 652
    housing, 530

DeLay, H. S., illus., 1079

Delta Sigma Theta, 1396a

Demby, William, 1073- 1074

    about, 966

De Mond, Albert L., 401

Dennett, John R., 895

Dennison, Tim, 1350

Dentists, 1292

Derbigny, Irving A., 576

De Santis, Vincent P., 1416

Des Moines, Public Schools, 727

Detroit, 182, 1606, 1648a

    riots, 1581, 1585

Detroit Urban League, 182

    Research Dept., 1606

Dett, Robert N., ed., 1351

Detweiler, Frederick G., 1458

Deutsch, Morton, 502

Dewey, Donald, 469

Dexter, Charles, 1778

Dickinson, Donald C., 7

Dickson Art Center, 89

Diggs, Charles C., 432

Diggs, E. Irene, 68

Dill, Augustus G., ed., 578

Dillard, James H., 1284a

Dillon, Merton L., 819

Diplomats, 231, 292

Direct action, 341, 1382

Directories, 66, 76, 131, 802, 1459a

Discrimination. _See_ Race discrimination, Segregation

Dissertations, academic, bibliography, 25, 40

District of Columbia, 148, 1610, 1614

    civil rights, 368
    Dept. of Public Welfare, 402
    education, 546, 572, 652
    employment, 452, 454, 488
    housing, 511, 532
    slavery, 942
    _See also_ Washington, D. C.

Divine, Father, about, 262

Dobbin, Donald D., 1648

Dobie, James Frank, 682

    ed., 688- 689

Dobler, Lavinia G., 117

Dodds, Barbara, 8

Dodson, Owen, 1075, 1245

Dogan, M. W., 70

Dollard, John, 1710

Donald, David, 1422

Donald, Henderson H., 442, 896

Donnan, Elizabeth, ed., 820

Donohugh, Agnes C. L., 68

Donovan, Frank R., 821

Doriot, George F., 435

Dorman, Michael, 326

Dorson, Richard M., comp., 690

    ed., 691- 692

Douglas, Aaron, illus., 722, 1221, 1240, 1266

Douglas, William O., 822

Douglass, Frederick, 185- 186, 1007, 1460

    about, 120, 200, 269, 952
    bibliography, 17

Douglass, Joseph H., 424

Douty, Esther M., 187

Dover, Cedric, 84

Dover, Maureen, 84

Dowd, Douglas F., ed., 1412

Doyle, Bertram W., 1495

Drake, Merci L., 472

Drake, St. Clair, 1607, 1719

Drama, 665, 670, 672, 948, 1209

Drawings, 97

Dreer, Herman, 956

Drew, Charles R., about, 211, 237

Drew Theological Seminary, 1667- 1668

Drewry, William S., 823

Drimmer, Melvin, comp., 1008

Drisko, Carol F., 897

Drotning, Phillip T., 734

Duberman, Martin B., 332, 1211

    ed., 824

DuBois, William E. B., 188- 189, 425, 712, 825, 898, 1009- 1010, 1076-
1080, 1496, 1608

    ed., 9, 68, 403, 430, 577- 578, 1291, 1522, 1665, 1758
    about, 118, 127, 134, 167, 280- 281, 952, 966
    bibliography, 188

Ducas, George, ed., 770

Duckett, Alfred, 276

Dudley, James B., about, 132

Dumas, Alexandre, père, about, 120

Dummett, Clifton O., ed., 1292

Dumond, Dwight L., 10, 327, 826- 827

Dunbar, Alice M. _See_ Nelson, Alice R. M. D.

Dunbar, Ernest, 1711

Dunbar, Paul L., 1081- 1086, 1246- 1248

    about, 120, 166, 180, 952

Dunbar High School, Washington, D.C., 600

Duncan, Beverly, 503, 1598

Duncan, Eula G., 693

Duncan, Otis D., 444, 503, 1598

Duncan, S. E., 629

Duncan, Thelma M., 1223

Dunham, Katherine, 190

    about, 170

Dunning, William A., 899

Durden, Robert F., ed., 1439

Durham, Philip, 443

Durham, N.C., 1425

D’Usseau, Arnaud, 1212

Dykeman, Wilma, 1497

Dykes, Eva B., ed., 979

Eason, Warren, 1554

East St. Louis, Ill., 1584

Eastman, George, 1492

Eaton, Isabel, 1608

_Ebony_, 67, 1011

Eckard, E. W., 469

Economic conditions, 396- 539, 1037, 1597, 1607

    bibliography, 40
    _See also_ Business; Employment; Housing, under names of places
    and regions, e.g., Southern States ——economic conditions

Edmonds, Helen G., 1417

Edmonds, Randolph, 1213- 1215

Edmonson, Munro S., ed., 1309

Education, 114, 131- 132, 426, 433, 440, 450, 540- 664, 746, 980, 1039,
1290, 1298

    bibliography, 37a, 53, 59
    statistics, 543, 567, 639
    _See also_ Educators, Race discrimination ——in education;
    Segregation ——in education; Teachers and teaching, Universities
    and colleges

Educational Foundation of the National Council of Negro Women, 495

Educators, 132, 222, 227, 257, 597.

    _See also_ Teachers and teaching

Edwards, Gilbert Franklin, 444

    ed., 1019, 1504

Edwards, Paul K., 404

Edwin, Ed, 219

Egypt, Ophelia S., 831

Ehle, John, 1608a

Eichenberg, Fritz, illus., 693

Eichner, Alfred S., 1505

"80 John," about, 165

Einstein, Charles, 249- 250

Eisenhower, Dwight D., about, 256

Eisenstadt, Murray, 735

Elections, 1418, 1425, 1432.

    _See also_ Gerrymander, Voting

Elinson, Howard, ed., 1031

Elkins, Stanley M., 828

Elks of the World, Improved Benevolent and Protective Order of, 1398

Ellington, Duke, about, 140

Elliott, Lawrence, 191

Ellis, Ethel M. V., comp., 11, 37a

Ellison, Ralph, 957, 1087

    about, 966

Ellison, Virginia H., 4

Emancipation, 764, 796, 803, 864, 882, 930

Emancipation Proclamation, 821, 904, 921, 1015

Emanuel, James A., 192

    comp., 982

Embree, Edwin R., 118

Emilio, Luis F., 1317

Emmett, Daniel D., about, 1369

Emond, Norma J., 1648

Employment, 407, 410, 413, 416, 428, 432, 434- 492, 898, 1313, 1704,
1719a, 1743

    bibliography, 43

Encyclopedias, 68

English, James W., 193

Entertainment, 665- 672.

    _See also_ Drama; Jazz music, Music;
    biography (collective), 140.
      _See also_ Actors; Comedians, Jazz musicians, Minstrels,
      Musicians

Episcopalians, 1657, 1700

Eppes, Susan B., 1712

Epps, Archie, ed., 1027

Eppse, Merl R., 736- 737

Epstein, Lenore A., 420

Essays and addresses, 995- 1044, 1404, 1485, 1504, 1661.

    _See also_ under subjects, e.g., Civil rights, ——essays and
    addresses

Essien-Udom, Essien U., 1498

European War, _1914-1918_, 1319, 1327- 1328, 1332

    economic aspects, 489
    fiction, 1071a
    music, 1370

Evans, William McKee, 900

Evers, Medgar W., about, 127, 1499

Evers, Mrs. Medgar, 1499

Expatriates, 1711

Explorers, 218, 253

FEPC. _See_ U.S. Committee on Fair Employment Practice

Facts on File, New York, 328, 370

Fager, Charles E., 1500

Faggett, Harry L., ed., 1051

Fahey, William A., 136

Falls, C. B., 1266

Faltermayer, Edmund K., 415

Family, 1763- 1770.

    _See also_ Children;

Fanshel, David, 1747

Farmer, James, 329, 1014

    about, 145

Farr, Finis, 194

Father Divine, about, 262

Faubus, Orval E., about, 1556

Faulkner, William, about, 970

Fauset, Arthur H., 1666

Fauset, Jessie R., 1088- 1090

Fax, Elton, illus., 687

Fayette Co., Tenn., 1412

Federal Writers’ Project, 829

Feelings, Tom, illus., 115, 845

Fein, Rashi, 405

Feldman, Eugene P. R., 195

Felton, Ralph A., 1667- 1668

Ferguson, Blanche E., 958

Ferguson, Clarence C., 550

Ferman, Louis A., 445

    comp., 446
    ed., 1713

Ferris, William H., 738

Ficklen, John R., 901

Fiction, 1044a- 1199

    bibliography, 4, 61, 960
    history and criticism, 949, 954, 959- 960, 963

Fields, Uriah J., 1501

15th amendment

    about, 931, 1415
    bibliography, 57

Filler, Louis, 830

1st amendment, about, 346

Fishel, Leslie H., 739

Fisher, ——, 157

Fisher, Dorothy C., 305

Fisher, Elijah J., about, 196

Fisher, Miles M., 195, 1352

Fisher, Paul L., ed., 1013

Fisher, Rudolph, 1091- 1092

Fisher, Walter, 217

Fisk University, Nashville, about, 563

    Social Science Institute, 831, 1669

Fitzgerald, Ed, ed., 204

Fitzhugh, George, 832

Fitzhugh, H. Naylor, ed., 432

Fleischer, Nathaniel S., 1773

Fleishman, Stanley, 330

Fleming George J., 69, 1418

Fleming, Walter L., 406

    ed., 902- 903

Fletcher, Tom, 666

Flipper, Henry O., 197- 198

Florida, 209, 228, 488

    Attorney General, 579
    education, 579, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 697
    housing, 538
    politics, 1440
    Reconstruction, 916, 926
    State University, Tallahassee, 916

Fogelson, Robert M., 1586

Foley, Albert S., 119, 199

Foley, Eugene P., 447

Folk-lore and folk-tales, 172, 673- 710

    bibliography, 15

Folk-songs. _See_ Songs

Foner, Philip S., 200, 833

Fontaine, William T., 1501a

Football, 206, 224, 1771

Foote, Nelson N., 504

Ford, James, ed., 523

Ford, James W., 1419

Ford, Nick A., 959

    ed., 1051

Foreman, Paul B., 51

Forman, James, 201, 354

Forten, Charlotte L., 580

Forten, James, about, 187

Fortune, Amos, about, 243

Fortune, T. Thomas, 1502

_Fortune_, 415

Foster, William Z., 740

Fountain, William A., 81

14th amendment

    about, 363, 496, 654, 931, 934, 945
    bibliography, 57

Fowler, Julian S., ed., 35

Francis, Charles E., 1318

Frank, Waldo, 1159

Franklin, Charles L., 448

Franklin, John H., 315, 725, 741- 743, 904- 905, 1012

    comp., 331, 1503

Frazier, Edward Franklin, 744, 1504, 1670, 1714, 1765- 1766

Frederick, John T., 992

Fredrickson, George M., ed., 837

Freedman’s Savings and Trust Company, Washington, D. C., 406

Freedmen, 241, 594, 642, 759, 896, 903, 912, 923

    biography (collective), 112
    Florida, 916
    Maryland, 1654
    North Carolina, 741
    Virginia, 458

Freedmen’s Bureau, about, 241, 883, 885, 903

Freedom of Information Conference, 8th, University of Missouri, _1965_,
1013

Freemasons, 1384- 1386, 1396, 1399

Freidel, Frank B., 745

Friedman, Leon, comp., 332

Frontier and pioneer life, 159, 198, 240

Fugitive slaves, 815- 816, 834, 848, 866, 872.

    _See also_ Slavery, ——biographies and narratives; Underground
    railroad

Fuller, Meta V. W., about, 134, 952

Fuller, Thomas O., 746, 1671

Furman, Abraham L., 1158a

Furness, William H., 857

Furr, Arthur, 1327

Gallagher, Buell G., 581

Gangs, 1619

Gara, Larry, 834

Gardner, Burleigh B., 1709

Gardner, Gordon A., 1706

Gardner, Mary R., 1709

Garfinkel, Herbert, 449

Garrison, Lucy M., comp., 1344

Garvey, Amy J., 202

Garvey, Marcus, 203,

    about 134, 179, 202

Gaskins, Ruth L., 387

Gass, Gertrude Z., 484

Gates, Robbins L., 582

Gauerke, Warren E., 585

Gay, William T., 1609

Geis, Gilbert, 717

Geismar, Maxwell, 1486

Genovese, Eugene D., 835

    ed., 417

Georgetown, D.C., 942

Georgia, 1413, 1653

    biography and autobiography, 147, 193, 234
    Commission on Education, 1389
    crime, 1758
    Dept. of Law, 936
    education, 597, 623, 643, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 701, 708
    Laws, statutes, etc., 936
    politics, 1413, 1451a
    Reconstruction, 884a, 1413
    segregation, 936
    slavery, 157, 169, 841, 862
    University, about, 643

_Georgia Historical Quarterly_, 1413

Gerrymander, 1447

    bibliography, 13

Gewecke, Clifford G., 154

Ghana, 717

Gibson, Althea, 204

Gibson, Gertrude, illus., 1204

Gibson, John S., 633

Gibson, John W., 70

Gilbert, Ben W., 1576

Gilbert, Olive, 205

Gillard, John T., 1672

Gillogly, David K., 538

Ginzberg, Eli, 428, 450, 456, 583, 1505

    ed., 407

Glazer, Nathan, 1766

    ed., 505

Glenn, Norval D., 721

Gloster, Hugh M., 960

Goff, Regina M., 1748

Goldblatt, Harold S., 506

Golden, Harry L., 177, 333, 1491, 1532

Goldston, Robert C., 747

Goldwin, Robert A., comp., 1014

    ed., 1015

Gomillion, Charles G., about, 1447

Gonzales, Ambrose E., 694- 694a

Goodman, Andrew, about, 124

Goodman, Mary E., 1749

Goodman, P., 1014

Gordon, Edmund W., 584

Gordon, Joan, 1629

Gosnell, Harold F., 1420

Gouldtown, N.J., 1644

Gourlay, Jack G., 451

Government officials and employees, 454, 461

    biography (collective), 113, 459
    biography (individual), 256
    _See also_ Civil service

Gow, James, 1212

Graham, Frank P., 1536

Graham, Hugh D., 1459

Graham, Lorenz B., 1093

Graham, Shirley, 206- 207, 1094- 1095

Grant, Joanne, comp., 334

Grantham, Dewey W., 1468

Gray, Alma L., 19

Gray, Thomas R., 878

Greater Minneapolis Interfaith Fair Housing Program, 529

Green, Constance M., 1610

Green, Donald R., 585

Green, Elizabeth L., 961

Green, John M., ed., 1623

Green, Paul, 674, 1227

Green, Robert L., 586

Green, William T., 1628

Greenberg, Jack, 595, 937

Greene, Ellen F., 1295

Greene, Harry W., 587

Greene, Lorenzo J., 452- 453, 748

Greene, Mary F., 588

Greensboro, N.C., 515

Greenville, S.C., 1427

Greer, Scott A., 1715

Gregory, Dick, 208, 335, 1200- 1201

Gregory, Montgomery, ed., 1221

Grier, Eunice S., 507- 509, 520, 1526

Grier, George W., 507- 509, 520, 1526

Grier, William H., 1293

Gries, John M., ed., 523

Griffin, Appleton P. C., 57- 58

Griffin, John A., 638

Griffin, John H., 1716

Grigg, Charles, 349

Griggs, Sutton E., 1096- 1096a

Grigsby, William G., 524

Grimke, A. H., 1403

Grimke, Angelina W., 1216

Grimke, Francis J., 1016- 1017, 1403

Groppi, James E., about, 1593

Gross, Milton, 265

Gross, Seymour L., ed., 962

Gross, Theodore L., comp., 982

Grossack, Martin M., ed., 1294

Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry, Committee on Social Issues, 589

Guilford Co., N.C., 1554

Guinn, Dorothy C., 1223

Gula, Martin, 1750

Gullahs, 694, 707, 1602, 1651.

    _See also_ Sea Islands, S.C.

Gulledge, Ola L., 1375

Gunner, Frances, 1223

Gurin, Patricia, 590

Guzman, Jessie P., 12, 591- 592

Haber, Alan, ed., 1713

Hadley, James S., 1494

Haiti, fiction, 1056

Halasz, Nicholas, 836

Haley, Alex, 237a

Haley, James T., comp., 71

Hall, Charles E., 1736

Hall, Woodrow W., 13

Hallock, Robert, illus., 136

Hamer, Fannie L., 374

Hamilton, Charles V., 318

Hammon, Briton, 209

Hammon, Jupiter, 1281

Hammond, Jabez D., ed., 251

Hampton, Wade, about, 1423

Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va., 1351

    about, 227
    Collis P. Huntington Library, 14

Handbooks, 67, 77

Handler, M.S., 237a

Handlin, Oscar, 336, 1584, 1611

Handy, William C., 210, 1618b

    ed., 1353- 1354

Hansberry, Lorraine, 337, 1217

Hansen, Carl F., 593

Hardwick, Richard, 211

Hardy, John E., ed., 962

Hare, Maud C., 212, 1223, 1355

Hare, Nathan, 1717

Harkey, Ira B., 1506

Harlan, Louis R., 281, 749

Harlem, New York (City), 1600, 1615, 1631- 1633

    education, 609- 610
    history, 95
    poetry, 1276
    riots, 1583
    social conditions, 168, 1483, 1612, 1629, 1640

Harlem Cultural Council, 90

Harlem Globetrotters, 1781

Harlem Hospital, 1290

Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited, New York, 1612

Harmon, John H., 427

Harmon Foundation, 85

Harper, Frances E. W., 1097

Harrington, Michael, 1713

Harrington, Ollie, illus., 1203

Harris, Abram L., 408, 486

Harris, Fred R., 1293

Harris, Jacqueline L., 163

Harris, Janet, 338, 1507

Harris, Joel Chandler, 695

Harris, Louis, 313, 1477

Harris, Theodore D., ed., 198

Harrison, Deloris, 213

Harrison, William P., 1673

Hart, Albert B., 866

Hartshorn, William N., ed., 750

Haskell, Daniel C., 21

Hatch, John D., 82

Hatcher, Andrew D., 367

Hausrath, Alfred H., 1321

Hawkins, Hugh, ed., 214

Hawkins, William G., 215

Hawley, Langston T., 469

Hayden, James J., 933

Hayden, Robert E., 1249- 1250, 1252

    comp., 1251

Hayden, Thomas, 1577

Hayden, William, 216

Hayes, Laurence J. W., 454

Hayes, Roland, 1356

    about, 134

Hayes, Rutherford B., 594

Haynes, Elizabeth R., 120

Haynes, George E., 455

Haynes, Leonard L., 1674

Hays, Brooks, 1508

Haywood, Charles, 15

Headley, Madge, 1744

Health. _See_ Medicine and health

Healy, James A., Bishop, about, 199

Heaps, Willard A., 1578

Heard, Alexander, 1421, 1426

Heartman, Charles F., 16, 46

    ed., 1283

Heartman Negro Collection, 49

Hedgeman, Anna A., 339

Hefner, Hugh M., 1200

Height, Dorothy I., 1509

Helper, Hinton R., 837, 1563

Henderson, Edwin B., 1774

Henderson, George W., 1098- 1099

Henderson, Mary, 18a

Henkle, Henrietta. _See_ Buckmaster, Henrietta, pseud.

Henning, John F., 456

Henry, Robert S., 906

Henry, Waights G., 409

Henson, Josiah, 217

    about, 120

Henson, Matthew A., 218

    about, 253

Hentoff, Nat, 1510

    comp., 1376

Henton, Comradge L., 1751

Herskovits, Melville J., 1718

Herzog, George, 1367

Hesseltine, William B., ed., 751

Hesslink, George K., 1613

Heyward, Dorothy H. K., 1218

Heyward, Du Bose, 1218

Heywood, Chester D., 1319

Hickey, Neil, 219

Hiestand, Dale L., 456

Higbee, Jay A., 938

Higginson, Thomas W., 918, 1320

Hill, Clifton T., illus., 1272

Hill, Herbert, 595

    ed., 480, 983- 984

Hill, John H., 1100

Hill, Joseph A., 1733

Hill, Robert B., 1586

Hill, Roy L., 121, 1018

Hill, Samuel E., 474

Hill, Timothy A., 410

Hillery, George A., 1605

Himes, Chester B., 1101- 1107

    about, 966

Hirshson, Stanley P., 1422

Historians, 790

Historical Records Survey, District of Columbia, 17

Historiography, 749, 790, 999

History, 99, 102, 309, 320, 327, 341, 351, 362, 366- 367, 372, 711- 930,
1472, 1500, 1505, 1507, 1535a, 1567, 1578, 1591, 1632, 1643, 1694, 1724

    bibliography, 19, 30, 44, 48, 749, 756
    chronology, 786
    essays and addresses, 65, 785, 798- 799, 995, 1008, 1018, 1029,
    1043
    pictorial works, 726, 746, 753
    sources, 712, 720, 724, 735, 739, 751, 755, 769, 795, 820, 881,
    972, 1529, 1595
    _See also_ Reconstruction; Slavery, ——names of wars, e.g., Civil
    War, under names of subjects, places, and regions, e.g.,
    Virginia ——history

Hobson, Julius W., 1507

Hodges, Carl G., comp., 752

Hoffman, James, 554

Hogan, William R., 183

    ed., 1616

Holdredge, Helen O., 220

Holland, Annie W., about, 132

Hollander, Barnett, 838

Holley, Joseph W., 596- 597

Hollitz, Erwin, 1706

Holmes, Dwight O. W., 598

Holmes, Eugene C., ed., 1019

Holmes, Hamilton, about, 643

Holmes, Samuel J., 411

Holsey, Alban L., 70

Holsey, Lucius H., Bishop, about, 173

Holt, John, 609

Holt, Len, 340

Holt, Rackham, 221- 222

Home Missions Council of North America, 1691

Homer, Dorothy R., 33

Hope, John, 469, 1403

Hopkins, Thomas A., 347

Horne, Lena, 223

    about, 140

Horney, Helen, 752

Horowitz, Benjamin, 97

Horton, David S., 1038

Hough, Joseph C., 1675

Housing, 465, 493- 539, 1533, 1553, 1593, 1624

    bibliography, 55, 517
    statistics, 528, 534

Houston, Tex., 399

Hoving, Thomas P. F., 95

Howard, James, ed., 853

Howard, Oliver O., about, 241

Howard University

    Gallery of Art, 92
    Graduate School, 454, 799
    Division of the Social Sciences, 1019
    Library, Moorland Foundation, 11, 18

Howe, Mark D., 325a

Howells, William D., 1246

Hoyt, Edwin P., 224

Hubbard, Geraldine H., comp., 35

Hughes, Carl M., pseud. _See_ Hughes, John M. C.

Hughes, Everett C., 1607

Hughes, John M. C., 963

Hughes, Langston, 122- 123, 225- 226, 667, 753, 985, 1108, 1110- 1115,
1219, 1244, 1253- 1257, 1259- 1261, 1387

    ed., 696, 1109, 1202, 1244, 1258
    about, 7, 118, 134, 192, 252
    bibliography, 7

Hughes, Louis, 1628

Hughes, William H., ed., 227

Huie, William B., 124, 228

Hull, Marie, illus., 1204

Hullfish, Henry Gordon, ed., 566

Humor, 1200- 1204.

    _See also_ Comedians

Humphrey, Hubert H., ed., 599

Humphrey, Norman D., 1581

Hundley, Mary G., 600

Hunt, B. H., 1563

Hunter, Charlayne, about, 643

Hunter, Jane E., about, 114

Hunter, Kristin, 1116- 1117

Hunter, Thomas L., 705

Hunton, George K., 229

Hurst, John F., Bishop, 1148

Hurston, Zora N., 697, 1118- 1119

Huson, Carolyn F., 457

Hussey, Edith L., 18a

Hyman, Harold M., comp., 908

    ed., 907

Illinois

    Chicago Commission on Race Relations, 1579
    Emancipation Centennial Commission, 752
    history, 752
    riots, 1584
    University, 907
    _See also_ Chicago

Imari, Brother, 341

Imes, Nella. _See_ Larsen, Nella

Income, 525, 636

Indexes, 18b, 37a

Indiana, 1621, 1646

Indiana Co., Pa., 871

Indiana Historical Bureau, 1646

Indians of North America, captivities, 209, 246

Industrial relations, 435, 473

Industrial Relations Counselors, 473

Industry, 415, 433

Inger, Morton, 570

Ingram, Tolbert R., ed., 1676

Institute of Early American History and Culture, Williamsburg, Va., 754,
1330

Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations (University of
Michigan—Wayne State University), 490

Institute of Race Relations, 315

Institute of Social and Religious Research, 539, 1685, 1744

Insurance, 421, 427

_Integrated Education_, 602, 658

Integrated Education Associates, 59, 602

Integration. _See_ Segregation

Intellectual life, 789, 1708

International Research Associates, 603

Iowa, 727, 1385

Isaacs, Edith J. R., 668

Isaacs, Harold R., 342

Ishmael, Woodi, illus., 705

Isom, Mary E., illus., 393

Jackson, Bruce, comp., 698

Jackson, Clyde O., 1357

Jackson, George P., 1358

Jackson, Joseph H., 343

Jackson, Luther P., 458- 459, 1752

Jackson, Mahalia, 230

Jackson, Miles M., 19

Jackson, Robert G., illus., 610

Jackson, Wagner D., 530

Jackson, Walter C., ed., 1284a

Jacobs, Paul, 344

Jacobson, Julius, ed., 460

Jaffa, Harry V., 1014- 1015

Jaffe, Abram J., 604

Janowitz, Morris, 1580

Jarrell, Hampton M., 1423

Jarrette, Alfred Q., 1424

Jazz music, 1345, 1348, 1353- 1354, 1361- 1364, 1366, 1368, 1374, 1376,
1381

    bibliography, 26, 41
    discography, 1364, 1366, 1368, 1381

Jazz musicians, 1348, 1363, 1368, 1374, 1381

    biography (collective), 144
    biography (individual), 151, 210, 271, 1345, 1364

Jeffers, Camille, 1767

Jefferson, Isaac, 230a

Jefferson, Thomas, about, 230a, 251

Jenkins, William S., 839

Jernegan, Marcus W., 839a

Jerome, Victor J., 669

Jews, 842, 1488, 1524, 1659

John Dewey Society, 566

John F. Slater Fund, New York, 594

John Henry, about, 685, 700

Johns Hopkins University, Operations Research Office, 1321

Johns Island, S.C., 1346

Johnson, Andrew, about, 911

Johnson, Charles S., 516, 523, 605, 1545, 1559, 1613a, 1719

    ed., 986
    about, 118

Johnson, Clifton H., 20

Johnson, Edward E., 1751

Johnson, Frank R., 840

Johnson, Georgia D., 1262- 1263

Johnson, Guion, 68

Johnson, Guy B., 699- 700, 708, 1371

Johnson, Haynes B., 1614

Johnson, James W., 231, 1120, 1265- 1266, 1511, 1615

    ed., 1264, 1359- 1360
    about, 134, 292, 952- 953

Johnson, John A. (Jack), about, 194, 1225, 1772

Johnson, John Rosamond, 1359

    ed., 1360

Johnson, Joseph T., 412

Johnson, Lyndon B., 785, 1005, 1020, 1481

Johnson, Mordecai W., about, 118, 134

Johnson, Philip A., 510

Johnson, Roger M., 995

Johnson, T. J., ed., 131

Johnson, William, 1616

    about, 183

Johnston, Ruby F., 1677

Joiner, William A., comp., 1617

Joint Health Education Committee, Nashville, 1295

Joint Survey Commission of the Baptist Inter-convention Committee, 1678

Jones, Butler A., 164

Jones, Charles C., 701

Jones, Elizabeth O., illus., 1378

Jones, Eugene K., about, 134

Jones, Everett L., 443

Jones, Howard Mumford, 1320

Jones, Howard O., 1679

Jones, Joseph C., illus., 706

Jones, LeRoi, 1021, 1121- 1122, 1220, 1267, 1361- 1362

    comp., 987
    ed., 988
    about, 966

Jones, Scipio A., about, 134

Jones, Thomas J., 651a

Jones, William H., 511

Jordan, Lewis G., 1680

Jordan, Winthrop D., 754

Joseph, Donald, 675

_Journal of Negro Education_, index, 37a

Journalists. _See_ Press— biography

Jubilee Singers, 1055

Julius Rosenwald Fund, 1, 72, 1295

Just, Ernest E., about, 134

Justice, administration of, 354, 1761

Juvenile literature, 101, 111, 117, 122- 123, 139- 140, 187, 213, 268,
702, 711, 768, 805, 897, 921, 1230, 1507, 1578

    bibliography, 2, 19, 22, 29, 42, 51

Kahn, Tom, 345

Kaiser, Inez Y., 388

Kalven, Harry, 346

Kansas, 579

Kaplan, Louis, 21

Kardiner, Abram, 1296

Karon, Bertram P., 1297

Katz, Daniel, 590

Katz, Shlomo, ed., 1524

Katz, William L., 240, 756

    comp., 755

Kauffer, Edward McKnight, illus., 1259- 1260

Kaufman, William I., 389

Kay, Barry, 530

Keckley, Elizabeth H., 232

Keech, William R., 1425

Keeler, Miriam, 472

Keil, Charles, 1363

Kelley, Ann, illus., 710

Kelley, William M., 1123- 1125

Kellogg, Charles F., 1388

Kemble, Frances A., 841

Kendall, Robert, 606

Kendall College, Evanston, Ill., 1037

Kennedy, John F., 361, 378

    about, 333, 367

Kennedy, Louise V., 43, 1719a

Kennedy, Robert F., 347

Kenney, John A., 1298

Kentucky, 1299, 1476, 1605

    education, 620, 652
    history, 730, 791
    slavery, 162, 791, 817, 857
    University, 620
      Dept. of Rural Sociology, 1605

Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, Public Affairs Conference Center, 1014

Kephart, William M., 1759

Kerlin, Robert T., 1268, 1512

Kerner Commission. _See_ U.S. National Advisory Commission on Civil
Disorders

Key, Valdimer O., 1426

Killens, John O., 1126- 1128, 1513

Killian, Lewis M., 348- 349

Kilpatrick, James J., 607

Kilpatrick, William H., 581

King, Donald B., ed., 1022

King, Glen D., 1492

King, Martin Luther, 124, 350- 352, 354, 1014, 1023- 1024, 1411, 1484,
1680a

    about, 125, 127, 160, 163, 213, 238, 248, 268, 270

Kinzer, Robert H., 431

Kirkeby, W. T. E., 1364

Kirsch, Robert, 1573

Kitt, Eartha, 233

    about, 140

Kleiner, Robert J., 1305

Knapp, Robert B., 608

Knight, Charles L., 512

Knights of the White Camelia, 903

Knoxville, Tenn., 1536

Koblitz, Minnie W., 22

Koger, Azzie B., 1681

Kohl, Herbert R., 609- 610

Konvitz, Milton R., 353

Korey, William, ed., 368

Korn, Bertram W., 842

Kornbluh, Joyce L., comp., 446

    ed., 1713

Kornhauser, Stanley H., 611

Kozol, Jonathan, 612

Kraus, Henry, 513

Krehbiel, Henry E., 1365

Krislov, Samuel, 461

Ku Klux Klan, 903, 1539

Kunstler, William M., 354

Kvaraceus, William C., 633

Kytle, Elizabeth L., 234

Labor and laboring classes, 438, 448, 455, 477a, 486, 832, 839a, 1704.

    _See also_ Slave labor, Trade-unions

Ladd, Everett C., 1427

Lader, Lawrence, 843

Lake, Verge, ed., 941

Lancaster, Emmer M., 23

Lancaster, H. Carrington, 1269

Lane, Lunsford, about, 215

Laney, Lucy, about, 114, 134

Langhorne, Orra H. M. G., 1618

Langston, John M., about, 120

Lanusse, Armand, comp., 1269

Larer, Marian L., illus., 181

Larkins, John R., 1720

Larsen, Nella, 1129- 1130

Larsson, Clotye M., ed., 1721

Latham, Frank B., 844

Latin America, 788, 799, 907

Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial, New York, 802

Laurenti, Luigi, 514

Lauter, Sylvia, 1523

Law enforcement, 1492, 1759, 1760- 1761. _See also_ Police

Lawrence, Jacob, illus., 1256

Lawson, James, 345

Lawyers, 146, 354, 492, 944

Lead Belly, about, 1367

Leaman, Samuel H., 515

Leckie, William H., 1322

Ledbetter, Huddie, about, 1367

Lee, Alfred M., 1581

Lee, Frank F., 1618a

Lee, George W., 1131, 1618b

Lee, Irvin H., 1323

Lee, L. Tennent, ed., 540

Lee, Reba, pseud., 235

Lee, Ulysses G., 1324

    ed., 975

Legal status, 376, 378, 575, 822, 913- 947, 1015

LeGette, Blythe, 177

Legislators, 1413

    biography (collective), 108- 109, 128, 1407, 1445
    biography (individual), 195, 219, 236, 242

Lehrer, Stanley, ed., 555

Leighton, Frances S., 264

Leighton, George R., 1313

Leinwand, Gerard, comp., 355

Leland, Charles G., 702a

Leskes, Theodore, 353

Lessing, L., 415

Lester, Julius, 1514

    comp., 845

Levene, Helene H., comp., 752

Levin, Arthur J., 522

Levitt, Arthur, 1592

Levy, Charles J., 356

Lewinson, Paul, 24, 1428

Lewis, Anthony, 357

Lewis, Claude, 236

Lewis, Hylan, 1619, 1722, 1767

Lewis, John, about, 145

Liberia, 801

    poetry, 1277

Libraries, 603

Lichello, Robert, 237

Liebow, Elliot, 1619

Lief, Harold, 1309

Lightfoot, Claude M., 1515

Lightfoot, Philip M., about, 1447

Lightfoot, Robert M., 1759a

Lincoln, Abraham, about, 148, 232, 791, 821- 822, 910, 1012

Lincoln, Charles Eric, 757, 1025, 1682- 1683

    comp., 358
    ed., 753

Lincoln, Mary Todd, about, 232

Lincoln University, Chester Co., Pa., American Studies Institute, 39

Lincoln University, Jefferson City, Mo., School of Journalism, 5

Lindsay, Arnett G., 427

Lipsyte, Robert, 208

Liston, Sonny, about, 308

Literature, 948- 1285

    bibliography, 6- 8, 16, 18, 18b, 21, 28, 34, 36- 37, 45- 46, 56,
    61, 961, 965, 979
    history and criticism, 6, 8, 948- 974, 1238, 1615, 1637
      bibliography, 25

Little, Malcolm, 237a, 758, 1026- 1027, 1484

    about, 125, 341, 966

Little Rock, Ark., 544, 551, 559, 635, 1508

Littlejohn, David, 964

Litwack, Leon F., 759, 1563

Lloyd, Arthur Y., 846

Locke, Alain L., 82, 86- 87, 99a, 955, 1366

    ed., 989, 1221
    bibliography, 1019

Lodge, Henry Cabot, Jr., 726

Loescher, Frank S., 1684

Lofton, John, 847

Logan, Frenise A., 1620

Logan, Rayford W., 185, 760- 762, 799

    ed., 230a, 1019, 1429

Loggins, Vernon, 965

Loguen, Jermain W., 848

Lokos, Lionel, 238

Lomax, Alan, 1346

    ed., 1367

Lomax, John A., ed., 1367

Lomax, Louis E., 125, 359

Long, Herman H., 516

Los Angeles, 606, 1571- 1575

Lott, Albert J., 1299

Lott, Bernice E., 1299

Louis, Joe, 239, 1775

    about, 118, 254

Louisiana, 389, 393, 1309, 1381, 1587, 1599, 1637, 1732

    cookery, 389, 393
    education, 652
    employment, 457
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 675, 697
    housing, 519
    Militia, 1325
    poetry, 1269
    Reconstruction, 901
    riots, 1587
    slavery, 865, 876
    Southern University and Agricultural and Mechanical College,
    Baton Rouge, Dept. of Psychology, 1751
    State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College, 1325

Louisiana Historical Association, 876

Louisville, Ky., 1476

L’Ouverture, Toussaint. _See_ Toussaint Louverture, François D.

Love, John L., 1403

Love, Nat, 240

Love, Rose L., ed., 702

Lovejoy, Owen, about, 242

Lowe, Richard, illus., 679

Lowenstein, Ralph L., ed., 1013

Lubell, Samuel, 1516

Lucas, John, 1368

Lufkin, Raymond, illus., 718

Lundy, Benjamin, about, 819

Lyda, John W., 1621

Lyford, Joseph P., 1481

Lyle, Jack, ed., 1456

Lynch, John R., 909, 1460

Lynching, 1487, 1540, 1561

Lynk, Miles V., 1300

Mabry, William A., 1430

McCall, Dan, 967

McCann, Gerald, illus., 122

McCarthy, Charles H., 910

McCauley, Patrick, ed., 638

McCollum, Ruby, 228

McCone Commission, 1575

McConnell, Roland C., 1325

McCoo, Edward J., 1223

McCord, Charles H., 1723

McCord, William M., 1621a

McCulloch, Margaret C., 64

McDonald, Erwin L., 1491

McEntire, Davis, 514

    ed., 505

MacEóin, Gary, 229

McFeely, William S., 241

McGill, Ralph, 541

McGinnis, Frederick A., 613- 614

McGrath, Earl J., 615

McGraw, James R., 335

McGuinn, Henry J., 1744

Macguire, Robert R., illus., 1070

Mack, Raymond W., 1028

McKay, Claude, about, 953

McKitrick, Eric L., 911

    ed., 849

McLoughlin, William G., 812

McManus, Edgar J., 850

McMillan, Lewis K., 616

McNamee, Lawrence F., 25

Macon Co., Ala., 1613a

McPherson, James M., 763- 764

McQuade, Walter, 415

McWhiney, Grady, ed., 912

McWilliams, Carey, 1517

McWorter, Gerald A., 570

Madden, Martin B., 196

Maddox, Harry, illus., 1204

Magdol, Edward, 242

Magoun, F. Alexander, 243

Mahammitt, Sarah H. T., 390

Mahier, Edith, illus., 1273

Major, Clarence, comp., 1270

Majors, Monroe A., 126

Malcolm X. _See_ Little, Malcolm

Malcolm X Society, Detroit, 341

Mallery, David, 617

Mallory, Edward J., ed., 1775

Malvin, John, 244

Malzberg, Benjamin, 1301

Mandelbaum, David G., 1326

Manes, Isabel C., ed., 317

Mangum, Charles S., 939

Mann, Arthur W., 245, 1776

March on Washington Movement, 449, 1023

Marfuggi, Joseph R., 163

Margolies, Edward, 966

Market surveys, 399

Marrant, John, 246

Marriage, 1763

Marshall, F. Ray, 462- 464, 474

Marshall, Herbert, 247

Marshall, Paule, 1132

Marshall, Thurgood, about, 127, 145

Martin, Robert E., 1019

Marx, Barbara, 18a

Marx, Gary T., 1518

Mary Peter, Sister, 375

Maryland, 1622, 1627, 1654, 1681

    Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations, 618- 619, 1622
    education, 546, 618- 619, 652
    employment, 488
    politics, 1418
    slavery, 157, 185- 186, 267, 298, 796, 813, 1654

Mason, Charles N., ed., 368

Mason, Julian D., ed., 1282

Mason, Monroe, 1327

Massachusetts, 1317, 1604, 1648

    Commission Against Discrimination, 465
    education, 612
    slavery, 852

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Center for International Studies,
342

Mather, Frank L., ed., 79

Matheus, John, 1223

Matlack, Lucius C., 162

Matthews, Brander, 1265

Matthews, Donald R., 1431

Matthews, Joseph B., 1389

May, Ernest R., 725

May, Samuel J., 851

Mayfield, Julian, 1133- 1135

Mayhew, Leon H., 465

Mays, Benjamin E., 160, 968, 1685

Mays, Willie, 249- 250

Mazyck, Walter H., 765

Medal of Honor, 1323

Medicine and health, 858, 1286- 1311.

    _See also_ Nurses, Physicians

Medico-Chirurgical Society of the District of Columbia, about, 1286

Meece, Leonard E., 620

Meier, August, 766- 767, 769

    comp., 1029
    ed., 720

Melbourn, Julius, 251

Meltzer, Milton, 252, 667, 753, 768- 769

Memphis, Tenn., 1618b

Mendelsohn, Jack, 360

Mental illness, 1301, 1305

Merchant marine officers, 258

Meredith, James H., 621

    about, 127

Merriam, Alan P., 26

Messner, Stephen D., 517

Metcalf, George R., 127

Methodist Church (United States)

    Jurisdictional Conferences, Central, 1662
    Woman’s Division of Christian Service, 941

Methodists, 1662.

    _See also_ African Methodist Episcopal Church

Mexico, 198

Meyer, Gladys E., 622

Meyer, Sylvan, 1462

Meyers, Sandra G., 604

Meyerson, Martin, 518

Micheaux, Oscar, 1136

Michigan, 182, 1601, 1606, 1613, 1623, 1648a

    folk-lore and folk-tales, 690- 692
    Freedmen’s Progress Commission, 1623
    riots, 1581, 1585
    State University, East Lansing, College of Education, 586
    University
      Bureau of Industrial Relations, 475
      Survey Research Center, 590

Middle classes, 583, 1714

Middle West, 794

_Midstream_, 1524

Migration, 102, 442, 1719a, 1742

    bibliography, 43

Military service, 197, 765, 1312- 1343

Millea, Thomas V., 1686

Miller, Abie, 1724

Miller, Elizabeth W., 27

Miller, Floyd, 253

Miller, Helen S., 1390

Miller, Herman P., 413

Miller, Joe A., comp., 446

Miller, Kelly, 1030, 1328, 1403

Miller, Loren, 940

Miller, Margery, 254

Miller, May, 1223

    ed., 1224

Miller, Warren, 1137

Milwaukee, 1628, 1630

    riots, 1593

Milwaukee County Historical Society, 1628

Ministers. _See_ Clergymen

Minneapolis, 529

Minnesota, 1642

    bibliography, 48
    employment, 437
    Governor’s Human Rights Commission, 1624
    housing, 529, 1624

Minorities, 505, 1028, 1490, 1517, 1635

    bibliography, 1, 51

Minstrels, 666, 1369

Miscegenation, 1546, 1721

Missions, 1673

Mississippi, 183, 1451, 1480, 1506, 1519, 1616, 1641, 1652

    civil rights, 124, 311, 340, 374, 1621a
    education, 621, 652, 661
    Reconstruction, 909
    slavery, 875
    social conditions, 1707, 1728
    University, 621

Mississippi Valley, folk-lore and folk-tales, 677

Missouri

    education, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 702a
    freemasons, 1385
    University, Freedom of Information Center, 1013

Mitchell, George S., 438

Mitchell, Loften, 670

Mitchell, Roland, 350

Mitchell Co., Tex., 165

Momboisse, Raymond M., 1582

Monroe, N.C., 380

Montgomery, Ala., 270, 1501, 1609

Monticello, Va., 230a

Moody, Anne, 1519

Moon, Bucklin, 1520

    ed., 990

Moon, Henry L., 1432

Moore, Archie, 255

Moore, George H., 852, 1625

Moore, Geraldine H., 1625

Moore, Peter W., about, 132

Moore, Richard B., 1725

Morais, Herbert M., 1302

Morgan, John W., 623

Morin, Relman, 638

Morris, Richard B., 850

Morrow, Everett F., 256

Morsbach, Mabel, 728

Morton, Richard L., 1433

Moseley, J. H., 128

Motley, Willard, 1138- 1141

Moton, Robert R., 70, 257, 1521

    about, 134, 227

Mott, Abigail F., comp., 129

Moving pictures, 140, 669

Moy, Seong, illus., 695

Moynihan, Daniel P., 1768- 1769

Moynihan Report, 1768- 1769

Muhammad Ali, 1772

Muhammad Mosque of Islam No. 2, 1689

Mulzac, Hugh, 258

    about, 145

Murphy, Beatrice M., ed., 1271- 1272

Murphy, Raymond J., ed., 1031

Murphy, William S., 1573

Murray, Daniel A. P., 28

Murray, Florence, ed., 74

Murray, Freeman H. M., 88

Murray, Lindley, 129

Murray, Pauli, 130

    ed., 941

Muse, Benjamin, 362, 624

Music, 685, 688- 689, 698- 700, 955, 1344- 1381

    bibliography, 15
    _See also_ Jazz music, Songs

Musicians, 951, 1348, 1355, 1361, 1366, 1368, 1372, 1374, 1381

    autobiography, 152, 156, 223, 230, 233, 283, 1345
    biography (collective), 123, 140, 1380
    _See also_ Jazz musicians, Minstrels

Myers, Phineas B., 1391

Myrdal, Gunnar, 1483, 1726, 1730- 1731

Nabrit, James M., 1022

Names, 1725

Nash, Paul, 547

Nast, Bernhard, illus., 1108

Natchez, Miss., 183, 1616

Nathan, Hans, 1369

National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, 494, 1287-
1288, 1522

    about, 304, 535, 1387- 1389, 1394, 1400
    Education Dept., 29
    Labor Dept., 466

National Association of Dramatic and Speech Arts, about, 672

National Association of Independent Schools, Committee on Educational
Practices, 617

National Association of Intergroup Relations Officials, 368

National Baptist Convention of the United States of America, Foreign
Mission Board, 1656

National Catholic Conference for Interracial Justice, 996, 1661

National Collection of Fine Arts, 96

National Conference on Equal Employment Opportunity, Washington, D.C.,
_1962_, 467

National Conference on Small Business, Washington, D.C., _1961_, 432

National Council of Negro Women, 391

National Council of Teachers of English, 8, 42

National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of
America,

    Dept. of Racial and Cultural Relations, 18a
    Division of Christian Education, 30

National Dental Association, 1292

National Education Association of the United States, Research Division,
625

National Industrial Conference Board, 468

National Medical Fellowships, 1303

National Opinion Research Center, 457, 570

National Planning Association, Committee of the South, 469

National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students, 565, 626, 632

National Urban League, 414, 986, 1392- 1393, 1523

    Community Relations Project, 1626
    Dept. of Research and Community Projects, 31, 470, 1627

Neal, Larry, comp., 987

Needham, Maurice D., 519

Negro Bibliographic and Research Center, 3a

Negro Culinary Art Club of Los Angeles, 392

Negro Health Survey, Pittsburgh, 1304

Negro-Jewish relations, 1488, 1524

Negro Publication Society of America, 857

Negroes in art, 83, 86- 89, 95, 665, 955, 1215, 1221, 1224

Negroes in literature, 86- 87, 665, 670, 952, 954- 955, 957, 959- 962,
969- 970, 974, 1215, 1221, 1223- 1224

    bibliography, 6, 22, 29, 42

Nell, William C., 1329

Nelson, Alice R. M. D., ed., 1032

Nelson, Bernard H., 363

Nelson, John H., 969

Nelson, Truman J., 1583

Neshoba Co., Miss., 124

Nevins, Allan, 926

New England, 843

    slavery, 748
    _See also_ Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island

New Haven, Conn., 1648b

New Jersey, 1568, 1644

    bibliography, 32
    education, 549, 573, 664
    employment, 488
    housing, 527
    riots, 1577

New Jersey Library Association, Bibliography Committee, 32

New Orleans, 519, 1309, 1381, 1599, 1732

    riots, 1587

_New South_ (Atlanta), 1525

New York (City), 1483, 1611, 1631- 1633, 1639, 1659

    Board of Education, 771
    Office of Intergroup Education, 611
    City University of New York, 90
    education, 588, 622
    employment, 448, 455
    Harlem Hospital, 1290
    housing, 495
    Interdepartmental Neighborhood Service Center, 1629
    medicine and health, 1290, 1311
    Metropolitan Museum of Art, 95
    police, 1583
    Practising Law Institute, 372
    Public Library, 2, 33, 41, 1632
      Schomburg Collection of Negro Literature, 18b, 34
    segregation, 1481
    _See also_ Harlem, New York (City)

New York (State), 1592

    employment, 471, 488
    housing, 506, 520
    mental illness, 1301
    race discrimination, 938
    race relations, 1526
    slavery, 289, 850
    State Commission for Human Rights, 471, 520
      Research Division, 1526
    State Council on the Arts, 95
    Temporary Commission Against Discrimination, 471, 1526
    _See also_ New York (City)

_New York Times_, 357

New York Urban League, 90

Newark, N.J., 527, 1568, 1577

Newbold, Nathan C., ed., 132

Newby, Idus A., 1526a- 1527

Newman, Dorothy K., 416

Newman, Shirlee P., 259

_News Year_, 328

Newspapers

    bibliography, 5, 38
    directories, 66, 1459a

Nichols, Charles H., 133

Nichols, James L., 70

Nichols, Mary D., ed., 1412

Nicholson, Joseph W., 1685

Nicol, Helen O., 472

Niles, Abbe, 210, 1353- 1354

Niles, John Jacob, 1370

Niles, Walter L., 1290

Nilon, Charles H., 970

Nipson, Herbert, ed., 1011

Noble, Jeanne L., 627

Nolan, William A., 1434

Nolen, Claude H., 1528

Nonviolence, 1382

Norfleet, Marvin B., 628

Norfolk, Va., 564

Norgren, Paul H., 473- 474

Norris, John Franklyn, about, 293

North Carolina, 215, 418, 429, 1620, 1650, 1754

    civil rights, 380, 575, 1608a
    Division of Negro Education, 629
    education, 132, 557- 558, 575, 629, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 683
    history, 719, 741
    housing, 515
    politics, 1417, 1425, 1427, 1430
    Reconstruction, 884a, 900
    segregation, 1554
    slavery, 155, 251
    University
      Institute for Research in Social Science, 564
      School of Public Administration, 1754

North Carolina Mayors’ Co-operating Committee, 1650

Northrup, Herbert R., 476- 477a

    ed., 475

Northwood, Lawrence K., 521

Nowlin, William F., 1435

Nunn, William C., 913

Nurses, 484, 487

Nutrition, 653

Nye, Russel B., 363a

Oak, Vishnu V., 1459a

Oakland, Calif., 398

    Art Museum, 89

Oberlin College, Library, 35

Occupational training, 398

Odd Fellows, Grand United Order of, in America, 1383

Odum, Howard W., 1371

Ogden, Frederic D., 1436

O’Grady, Janine G., 1648

O’Hanlon, Thomas, 415

Ohio, 244, 1341, 1391, 1603, 1617, 1634a

    Central State College, Wilberforce
      about, 1617
      Library, 18b
      _See also_ Wilberforce University, Wilberforce, Ohio
    education, 613, 652
    freemasons, 1399
    politics, 1454
    slavery, 816

Ohio Historical Society, 1341

Oklahoma, 1626, 1649

    colonization, 717
    education, 652

Oklahoma City, 1626

Olbrich, Emil, 1437

Oliver, Joseph ("King" Joe), about, 151

Olmsted, Frederick L., 853

Olsen, Jack, 1777

Olsen, Otto H., 260

Olson, Frederick J., 1628

Operation Crossroads Africa, 274

Orations, 1018, 1032, 1044

Orden, Bob, ed., 1200

O’Reilly, Charles T., 1630

Organizations, 421, 1382- 1401

Osofsky, Gilbert, 1529, 1631

O’Sullivan, Tom, illus., 1275

Ott, Eleanore, 393

Ottley, Roi, 261, 772, 1142, 1632- 1633

Ovesey, Lionel, 1296

Ovington, Mary W., 134

Owen, Juliette A., illus., 702a

Owen, Mary A., 702a

Owens, William A., 854

Pain, William, 364

Paintings, 83, 85, 93

Palfi, Marian, illus., 103

Pancoast, Elinor, 619

Park, Robert E., 1530, 1551

Parker, Charles C. (Charlie "Bird"), about, 271

Parker, Donald F., 717

Parker, Robert A., 262

Parker, Seymour, 1305

Parks, Gordon, 263, 1142a

Parks, Lillian R., 264

Parks, Rosa L., about, 127, 145

Parsons, Elsie W. C., ed., 703

Parsons, Talcott, ed., 1005

Passow, A. Harry, ed., 663

Pattee, Richard, 799

Patterson, Caleb P., 1633a

Patterson, Floyd, 265

Patterson, Frederick D., ed., 227

Patterson, Lindsay, comp., 671, 1372

Pauli, Hertha E., 266

Payne, Daniel A., 1687

Paynter, John H., 478, 1143

Peary, Robert E., 218

Pease, Frederick H., 773

Pease, Jane H., 774

Pease, William H., 774

Peck, James, 1531

Penn, Irvine G., 1460

Penniman, George W., ed., 750

Pennington, Edgar L., 630

Pennington, James W. C., 267, 775

Pennsylvania, 187, 871, 1461, 1608, 1666

    education, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 673
    housing, 524, 539
    public health, 1304
    riots, 1570
    slavery, 877a
    University, Wharton School of Finance and Commerce
      Industrial Research Unit, 476- 477, 482
      Labor Relations Council, 475

Periodicals

    bibliography, 74
    directories, 66
    indexes, 18b, 37a

Perry, Jennings, 1438

Pershing, John J., 1332

Peskin, Allan, ed., 244

Peterkin, Julia M., 1727

Peters, Paul, 1222

Peters, Phillis. _See_ Wheatley, Phillis

Peters, William, 1499, 1532

Petersen, William, ed., 1533

Petry, Ann L., 1144- 1146

Pettet, Zellmer R., 1736

Pettigrew, Thomas F., 27, 365, 1306

Peyton, Thomas R., 1307

Pharr, Robert D., 1147

Phelps-Stokes Fund, 68, 631, 651a, 1534, 1691

Philadelphia, 187, 1461, 1608, 1666

    folk-lore and folk-tales, 673
    housing, 524, 539
    riots, 1570

Phillips, Ulrich B., 417, 855- 856

Phillips, Wendell, about, 158

Photographers, 263

Physicians, 171, 211, 237, 492, 1298, 1300, 1303, 1307, 1311

Pickard, Kate E. R., 857

Pickens, William, 1148

Piech, Paul P., illus., 1020

Pierce, Joseph A., 433

Pike, James S., 1439

Pine Bluff, Ark., 690, 692

Pinkney, Alphonso, 776

Pipes, James, 1273

Pipes, William H., 1033, 1688

Pippin, Horace, about, 93

Pitts, Elsie W., ed., 1650

Pitts, Nathan A., 418

Pittsburgh, 1304

_Pittsburgh Courier_, about, 282

Plans for Progress, 76, 632

Plantation life, 417, 855, 858, 1613a, 1712, 1727, 1741

Planter (Steamer), 288

Plato, Ann, 991

Plaut, Richard L., 632

    ed., 626

Plays, 1205- 1227

Playwrights, 225- 226, 948, 1209

Pleasant, Mary E., about, 220

Ploski, Harry A., comp., 77

Plotkin, Lawrence, 565

Poetry, 971, 974, 1228- 1285

    bibliography, 37, 46
    history and criticism, 1238

Poets, 1234, 1240, 1268

    biography (collective), 139
    biography (individual), 166, 180, 192, 225- 226, 231, 252, 292

Pointe de Sable, Jean B., fiction, 1094

Poitier, Sidney, about, 140

Police, 372, 441, 1492, 1580, 1583, 1759, 1760- 1761

Polite, Carlene H., 1149

Political parties, 1409, 1416, 1421.

    _See also_ Republican Party

Politics, 318, 374, 419, 898, 943, 1402- 1455

    bibliography, 13, 57
    biography. _See_ Legislators

Poll tax, 1436, 1438

Pollard, Edward A., 914

Pool, Rosey E., ed., 1274

Poole, Elijah, 1689

Poor People’s Campaign, 1576

Pope, Liston, 1535

Port Royal, S.C., 1636

Porter, Dorothy B., 36- 37a

Porter, James A., 91- 92, 97

Porter, Mrs. M. E., 394

Posey, Thomas E., 1634

Postell, William D., 858

Potomac Institute, Washington, D.C., 522

Potter, David M., 417

Poverty, 413, 480, 526, 633, 1640, 1713, 1752, 1767

Powdermaker, Hortense, 1728

Powell, Adam Clayton, 777

    about, 219, 236

Powledge, Fred, 1535a

Practising Law Institute, 372

Preaching, 1688

Prejudice, 1016, 1518, 1564, 1745

President’s Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, Washington,
D.C., _1931_, 523

Presidents, U.S., 264.

    _See also_ names of individual Presidents

Press, 325a, 1013, 1429, 1456- 1462

    biography (collective), 121, 1460
    biography (individual), 261, 263, 282, 1506
    _See also_ Newspapers, Periodicals

Preston, Edward, 268

Price, Arthur Cooper, 1753

Price, Daniel O., 564

Price, Hugh D., 1440

Price, Leontyne, about, 140

Price, Margaret W., 1441

Price, Thomas, 277

Pride, Armistead S., 28, 1456

Priest, Madge H., 539

Priests. _See_ Clergymen

Prince Edward Co., Va., 586, 637

Princeton University, Program in American Civilization, 39

Prints, 94

Private schools, 585, 617, 651a

Proctor, H. H., 1758

Proctor, Samuel D., 366

Professions, 444, 492

Progressivism, 371

Protestant churches, 1674, 1684, 1690.

    _See also_ names of individual denominations, e.g., Baptists,
    Methodists

Prothro, James W., 1431

Proudfoot, Merrill, 1536

Psychology, 381, 568, 589, 789, 1293- 1294, 1296- 1297, 1299, 1306,
1309, 1486, 1513

Public Affairs Committee, 531, 1313, 1731

Public opinion, 1404, 1497, 1554

Public schools, 570, 578, 648

    Arkansas, 544, 551, 635
    Maryland, 618- 619
    Massachusetts, 612
    New England, 839a
    New Jersey, 549, 573
    North Carolina, 575, 629
    Southern States, 646, 649, 839a
    Virginia, 564, 637
    Washington, D.C., 600

Puckett, Newbell N., 704

Puerto Ricans, 296, 745, 1611, 1640

Pushkin, Aleksandr S., about, 120

Putnam, Carleton, 1537

Quarles, Benjamin, 739, 778- 779, 1330- 1331

    comp., 269
    ed., 186

Quick, Charles W., ed., 1022

Quillin, Frank U., 1634a

Quint, Howard H., 1538

Race, 1503- 1504, 1530, 1548, 1729, 1755

Race awareness, 1745, 1749

Race discrimination, 313, 321, 729, 932, 935, 946, 1522, 1527, 1549,
1564

    bibliography, 52
    in education, 565, 612, 615, 636, 647
    in employment, 436- 437, 439, 445, 456, 460, 463, 465- 467, 474-
    475, 480- 481, 483, 485, 488, 490
    in housing, 493, 496, 498- 499, 505, 507, 509- 510, 520- 522,
    524, 528- 530, 532- 535
      bibliography, 517
    in sports, 1778
    law and legislation, 353, 937- 938, 941
    Michigan, 1648a
    South Dakota, 1338
    Southern States, 1525, 1528
    _See also_ Segregation

Race relations, 64, 135, 176, 349, 359, 381, 943, 994, 1306, 1463- 1591,
1608, 1660, 1683- 1684, 1698, 1703, 1714, 1721, 1745, 1749, 1760

    Alabama, 201, 1501
    and education, 581, 628
    and employment, 486
    anthologies, 994
    bibliography, 1, 4, 50
    California, 398, 1635
    Connecticut, 1489, 1618a
    directories, 72
    District of Columbia, 1610
    drama, 1211
    essays and addresses, 323, 785, 997- 998, 1003, 1006- 1007,
    1018, 1021, 1026- 1028, 1031, 1035, 1037, 1043, 1503
    in literature, 959
    Kentucky, 1476
    Maryland, 1622
    Michigan, 182, 1581, 1585
    Mississippi, 1480, 1506, 1641
    New Jersey, 1577
    New York (State), 1481, 1526
    Pennsylvania, 1608
    South Carolina, 1439
    Southern States, 316, 919, 1422, 1428, 1479, 1490- 1491, 1493,
    1495, 1497, 1502, 1525, 1532, 1555, 1566, 1569a
    study and teaching, 611
    Virginia, 1655
    _See also_ Church and race problems, Civil rights,, Race
    discrimination, Segregation

Raim, Ethel, 1346

Rainwater, Lee, 1768

Raleigh, N.C., 429

Ramsey, Frederic, 1373

    ed., 1374

Ranch life, 165

Randall, James G., 915

Randel, William P., 1539

Randolph, Asa Philip, 446, 1472

    about, 118, 145, 449

Randolph, John, about, 251

Range, Willard, 634

Ransom, Reverdy C., Bishop, 81

    ed., 1701

Raper, Arthur F., 1540

Rapid City, S.D., 1338

Rapier, James T., about, 195

Rapkin, Chester, 524

Ratchford, B. U., 469

Reconstruction, 260, 642, 716, 730, 751, 883- 930, 1334, 1413- 1414,
1439

    fiction, 1198

Record, Jane C., ed., 635

Record, Wilson, 1394, 1442, 1635

    ed., 635

Redden, Carolyn L., 62

Reddick, Lawrence D., 270

Redding, Jay Saunders, 135, 770, 780- 782, 971, 1034, 1150, 1203, 1244

Reference sources, 1- 81.

    _See also_ Bibliographies; Biographical dictionaries,
    Directories

Reform Congregation Keneseth Israel, Elkins Park, Pa., 842

Regimental histories, 1315, 1317, 1319- 1320, 1322, 1333, 1337

Regional studies, 1592-1655.

    _See also_ names of places and regions, e.g., Georgia, Southern
    States

Reid, Ira De A., 40, 799, 1627, 1678

    ed., 1464

Reid, Margaret G., 525

Reimers, David M., 1690

Reisner, Robert G., 41, 271

Reitzes, Dietrich C., 1308

Religion and the church, 262, 285, 307, 682, 968, 1207, 1656-1701, 1741.

    _See also_ Church and race problems, Clergymen, Slavery, ——and
    the church; names of denominations and faiths, e.g., Baptists,
    Jews

Republican Party, 877, 908, 1409, 1416

Research and Action Associates, 495

Research Analysis Corporation, 1321

Reuter, Edward B., 1541

Rhode Island, 1594

Rhode Island Soldiers and Sailors Historical Society, 1333

Richardson, Ben A., 136

Richardson, Clement, ed., 73

Richardson, Harry V., 1691

Richardson, Joe M., 916

Richardson, Willis, 1223

    comp., 1223
    ed., 1224

Rickey, Branch, 275, 1776

Riley, Jerome R., 1443

Ringe, Helen H., 479

Riots, 1570- 1591, 1593

Roach, Margaret, ed., 1661

Robb, Bernard, 705

Roberts, Bruce, 1473

Roberts, Owen J., 542

Roberts, Warren E., 683

Robeson, Eslanda G., 272

Robeson, Paul, 273

    about, 118, 134, 140, 206, 224, 272

Robinson, James H., 274

Robinson, John R. (Jackie), 275- 276, 1778

    about, 127, 245, 278

Robinson, Louie, 1779

Robinson, Luther (Bill "Bojangles"),

    about, 140

Robinson, Wilhelmena S., 137

Rockhurst College, Kansas City, Mo., 1661

Rodman, Selden, 93

Roelof-Lanner, T. V., ed., 94

Rogers, Elymas P., 848

Rogers, Joel A., 138, 783- 784, 1151, 1542, 1729

Rohrer, John H., ed., 1309

Rollins, Bryant, 1152

Rollins, Charlemae H., 139- 141, 1228

    comp., 1275
    ed., 42

Romero, Patricia W., 1340

Roosevelt, Theodore, 1332

Roper, Moses, 277

Rose, Arnold M., 1726, 1730

    ed., 785, 1463

Rose, Willie L. N., 1636

Rosen, Alex, 1570

Rosenwein, Sam, 330

Ross, Arthur M., ed., 480

Ross, David P., ed., 98

Ross, Frank A., 43

Ross, Malcolm H., 481

Rossi, Peter H., 1586

Roussève, Charles B., 1637

Roussève, Numa J., illus., 1599

Roussève, Ronald J., 1035

Rowan, Carl T., 278, 1543- 1544, 1642

Rowan, Richard L., 482

    ed., 475

Rowland, Mabel, ed., 279

Rozwenc, Edwin C., ed., 859

Rubin, Louis D., ed., 594

Ruchames, Louis, 483

    ed., 860

Rudwick, Elliott M., 280- 281, 766, 1584, 1728

    comp., 1029

Rukeyser, William S., 415

Rumbough, Constance H., 1545

Rural churches, 1667- 1668

Rural life, 1719, 1743, 1770.

    _See also_ Plantation life

Russell, John H., 1638

Rust, Brian A. L., 151

Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J., Urban Studies Center, 527

Rutledge, Aaron L., 484

Ryan, Orletta, 588

Sable, Jean B. Pointe de, fiction, 1094

Sackler, Howard O., 1225

Sagarin, Edward, 431

St. Helena Island, S.C., 699

Sale, John B., 706

Salk, Erwin A., 44

Salomon, Chester V., 1628

Sam, Alfred C., about, 717

San Diego, Calif., Fine Arts Gallery, 89

San Francisco Bay region, 221, 1635

San Pedro, Calif., 513

Sanborn, Franklin B., 861, 1758

Sandburg, Carl, 148

Sanders, Wiley B., ed., 1754

Sandle, Floyd L., 672

Saperstein, Abe, 1781

Saunders, Doris E., ed., 367

Savoy, Willard W., 1153

Sawyer, Frank B., ed., 66

Scally, Mary Anthony, Sister, 45

Scarborough, Dorothy, 862, 1375

Scarborough, Ruth, 862

Schechter, Betty, 1444

Scheer, Robert, ed., 1485

Scheiner, Seth M., 1639

Schickel, Richard, 223

Schiedt, Duncan P., 1364

Schiltz, Michael E., 457

Schleifer, Marc, ed., 380

Schlein, Irving, ed., 1344

Schoener, Allon, comp., 95

Schomburg, Arthur A., 1283

    comp., 46

Schomburg Collection of Negro Literature and History, 18b, 34

Schools. _See_ Private schools, Public schools

Schorr, Alvin L., 526

Schuchter, Arnold, 419

Schulberg, Budd, ed., 993

Schuman, Howard, 1586

Schuyler, George S., 282, 1153a

Schuyler, Philippa D., 283

Schwerner, Michael H., about, 124

Scientists, 191, 207, 211, 221, 237.

    _See_ also Explorers, Physicians

Scott, Dred, about, 844

Scott, Emmett J., 1332

Scott, John A., 841

Scottsboro case, 1756

Scruggs, Lawson A., 142

Sculpture, 85, 88

Sea Islands, S.C., 580, 1346, 1602, 1636, 1651

    folk-lore and folk-tales, 686, 694a, 699, 703

Seaton, Shirley, 711

Seattle, 521

Segal, Ben D., ed., 368

Segregation, 214, 309, 365, 759, 1308, 1339, 1462, 1464, 1467, 1474-
1476, 1501a, 1513, 1526a, 1531, 1535a, 1545, 1550, 1552, 1562- 1563,
1565, 1746

    and mental health, 1294
    and the press, 1459
    bibliography, 52
    Connecticut, 1489, 1618a
    Georgia, 936
    humor, 1200
    in child care, 1750
    in education, 555, 585, 589, 595- 596, 599, 608, 624- 625, 628,
    633, 645,  648, 650- 651, 1745
      Arkansas, 551, 559, 635, 1508
      bibliography, 59
      case studies, 554, 570
      essays and addresses, 602, 658
      law and legislation, 542, 547, 550, 579, 592, 654
      Maryland, 618- 619
      New Jersey, 549, 573
      New York (City), 588, 622
      Southern States, 541, 564, 568, 582, 601, 607, 637, 639- 640,
      643, 646, 649, 659, 1538
      Washington, D.C., 593
    in housing, 494, 502, 516, 531, 536, 1553
    in libraries, 603
    in restaurants, 1536
    in sports, 1777
    in transportation, 270, 1501
    Kentucky, 1476
    New York (City), 1483
    North Carolina, 1554
    religious aspects, 1660, 1662, 1676, 1690, 1692
    South Carolina, 1538
    Southern States, 1474, 1490, 1493- 1494, 1497, 1543, 1555- 1557
    Tennessee, 1536
    Virginia, 1547
    _See also_ Race discrimination

Sellers, James B., 863

Sellers, James E., 1692

Sevareid, Arnold Eric, 1473

Sexton, Patricia C., 636, 1640

Shannon, Alexander H., 1546

Shapiro, Karl, 1276

Shapiro, Nat, comp., 1376

Sharon, Henrietta B., illus., 1230

Shelby, Gertrude M., 707

Shenton, James P., ed., 917

Shepard, Leslie, 1370

Sherlock, P. M., 286

Sherman, George R., 1333

Sherrard, Owen A., 864

Shoemaker, Don, ed., 640

Shogan, Robert, 1585

Short stories, 1049, 1051, 1064, 1067- 1068a, 1082, 1085, 1109- 1110,
1113, 1115, 1122- 1123, 1148, 1166, 1183, 1275

Shugg, Roger W., 865

Shuttlesworth, Fred, about, 145

Siebert, Wilbur H., 866

Sieg, Vera, 47

Sierra Leone, 801

Silberman, Charles E., 1546a

Silver, James W., 1641

Silverman, Martin, ed., 611

Simmons, William J., 143

Simms, William R., ed., 1393

Simpson, George E., 1461

Sinclair, William A., 918

Singers. _See_ Entertainment; Musicians

Singletary, Otis A., 1334

Singleton, George A., 284, 1693

Skaggs, William H., 919

Skin diseases, 1310

Sklar, George, 1222

Slater Fund for Negro Education, 594

Slave insurrections, 808- 809, 823, 836, 840, 847, 854, 878

Slave labor, 814, 855

Slave songs, 1344, 1352

Slave trade, 811, 820, 825, 845, 864, 867, 869

Slavery, 363a, 417, 723, 731, 775, 788, 804- 805, 808- 882, 921, 933,
1312, 1495, 1559

    Alabama, 155, 857, 863
    and the church, 818, 1673, 1698
    bibliography, 17, 973
    biographies and narratives, 133, 155, 157, 162, 169, 183, 185-
    186, 196, 216, 230a, 232, 243, 251, 267, 277, 289, 298, 300,
    829, 845
      about, 870
    District of Columbia, 942
    fiction, 1100, 1143
    Georgia, 157, 169, 841, 862
    history, 718, 736- 737, 742, 797, 839a
      sources, 881
    justification, 832, 839, 846, 849
    Kentucky, 162, 791, 817, 857
    Louisiana, 865, 876
    Maryland, 157, 185- 186, 267, 298, 796, 813, 1654
    Massachusetts, 852
    Mississippi, 875
    New England, 748
    New York (State), 289, 833, 850
    North Carolina, 155, 251
    Ohio, 816
    Pennsylvania, 877a
    South Carolina, 157, 277, 847
    Southern States, 216, 811, 835- 836, 842, 849, 855- 856, 868,
    879
    Tennessee, 1633a
    Texas, 853
    Virginia, 230a, 289, 765, 809, 814, 823, 840, 878, 1645
      fiction, 1110
    _See also_ Abolitionists, Antislavery movements, Emancipation

Sleeper, Charles F., 1694

Slichter, Sumner H., 477a

Sloan, Irving J., 786

Slums, 527

Smalley, Webster, 1219

Smalls, Robert, about, 288

Smith, Amanda B., 285

Smith, Charles E., ed., 1374

Smith, Charles S., ed., 1687

Smith, Ezekiel E., about, 132

Smith, Henry, 1234

Smith, James Wesley, 1547

Smith, Lillian E., 369

Smith, Myrtle E., 395

Smith, Robert C., 637

Smith, Samuel D., 1445

Smith, Wendell, 275

Smith, William G., 1154- 1156

Smithsonian Institution, National Collection of Fine Arts, 96

Smuts, Robert W., 450

Snethen, Worthington G., comp., 942

Sobel, Lester A., ed., 370

Social conditions, 339, 382, 400, 405, 414, 420, 426, 453, 492, 523,
552, 562- 563, 571, 605, 670- 671, 721, 803, 828, 939, 1290, 1296- 1297,
1306, 1511, 1559, 1672, 1702- 1270

    bibliography, 40, 43
    Chicago, 1607
    Cleveland, 377
    essays and addresses, 995, 1000
    Minnesota, 1624
    Mississippi, 1451
    New Haven, 1648b
    Southern States, 417, 545, 1495, 1668
    Washington, D.C., 511, 1619
    West Virginia, 537

Social Democratic Federation, 345

Social Science Research Council, 43, 1719a

Socialist Party (U.S.), 345

Socially handicapped children, 584, 588, 609, 644, 663

Societies. _See_ Organizations

Society for the Advancement of Education, 555

Somerville, John A., 286

Songs, 56, 685, 688, 695, 697, 700, 1344, 1346, 1351, 1353, 1359, 1367,
1369- 1371, 1377

    bibliography, 15
    history and criticism, 699, 1238, 1348- 1349, 1352, 1355, 1365-
    1366, 1375
    _See also_ Spirituals

The South. _See_ Southern States

South Carolina, 847, 1427, 1538, 1647

    education, 580, 616, 652
    Episcopalians, 1700
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 674, 676, 694, 707, 709
    music, 1346
    politics, 108- 109, 1423, 1427, 1439
    Reconstruction, 883, 884a, 886, 903, 924, 929, 1439
    slavery, 157, 277, 847
    social conditions, 1741
    State College, Orangeburg, School of Graduate Studies, 108
    _See also_ Sea Islands, S.C.

South Dakota, 1338

Southampton Insurrection, _1831_, 809, 823, 840, 878

Southern, David W., 371

Southern Commission on the Study of Lynching, 1540

Southern Education Reporting Service, 638- 640

Southern Regional Council, 585, 601, 1441, 1462, 1525

Southern States, 425, 947, 1373, 1422, 1479, 1491, 1495, 1525, 1528,
1532, 1566, 1569a, 1716, 1719, 1722, 1740

    churches, 1668
    cities and towns, 879, 1596
    civil rights, 316, 326, 356, 360, 369, 1401
    cookery, 383- 384, 394
    economic conditions, 397, 404, 417, 425, 835, 855- 856, 919,
    1502, 1709
    education, 541, 545, 560, 568, 581, 604, 615, 631, 638- 640,
    646, 649, 659
    employment, 469
    history, 743, 806- 807.
      _See also_ Reconstruction;
    humor, 1204
    Jews, 842
    justice, administration of, 354, 1761
    police, 441
    politics, 906, 919, 1416, 1421, 1426, 1428, 1430- 1431, 1436,
    1441, 1452- 1453
    press, 1429, 1462
    public schools, 839a
    Reconstruction, 884a, 891, 893, 895, 906, 917, 922
    segregation, 607, 1474, 1490, 1493- 1494, 1497, 1543, 1555- 1557
    slavery, 216, 811, 835- 836, 842, 849, 868, 879
    social conditions, 417, 856, 919, 1709- 1710

Southern Study in Higher Education, 659

Southwest, New, 165, 198, 688- 689

Sovern, Michael I., 485

Spangler, Earl, 48, 1642

Spanish-American War, 1315, 1335

Sparkman, J. R., 1563

Spear, Allan H., 989, 1643

Spearman, Walter, 1462

Spears, John R., 867

Spellman, A. B., 144

Spellman, Cecil L., 641

Spencer, Gerald A., 1310- 1311

Spencer, Samuel R., 287

Spero, Sterling D., 486

Spingarn, Arthur B., 18

Spirituals, 1347, 1356, 1358- 1360, 1378- 1379

Sports, 1771- 1781.

    _See also_ Athletes, names of sports, e.g., Tennis

Stahl, David, ed., 372

Stampp, Kenneth M., 868, 920

Stanton, William R., 1548

Starkey, Marion L., 869

Starling, Marion W., 870

Starr, Isidore, comp., 331

Statistics, 411, 1461, 1605, 1617, 1648, 1701, 1733- 1736.

    _See also_ under specific topics, e.g., Housing, ——statistics

Staudenraus, P.J., 787

Staupers, Mabel K., 487

Stearns, Marshall W., 41

Steel industry and trade, 482

Stephenson, Clarence D., 871

Stephenson, Gilbert T., 943

Sterling, Dorothy, 288, 373, 921

Sterling, Philip, ed., 1203

Sterne, Emma G., 145

Sterner, Richard M., 420, 1726

Sternlieb, George, 527

Stetler, Henry G., 440, 500 -501, 1489

Steward, Austin, 289

Steward, Theophilus G., 1335, 1644

Steward, William, 1644

Stewart, Maxwell S., 1731

Still, James, 290

Still, Lavinia, about, 857

Still, Peter, about, 857

Still, William, 872

Still, William G., about, 118

Stillman, Richard J., 1336

Stillman College, Tuscaloosa, Ala., about, 540

Stock, Mildred, 247

Stokely, James, 1497

Stokes, Anson Phelps, 68, 1534

Stokes, Carl, about, 1454

Stone, Chuck, 1036

Stoney, Samuel G., 707

Storey, Juanita, 711

Storing, H. J., 1014

Stover, William H. M., 1549

Straker, David Augustus, 922

Stribling, Mattie L., 1204

Strickland, Arvarh E., 1395

Strong, Donald S., 1446

Strother, Horatio T., 873

Stuart, Merah S., 421

Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, 1401

Students, 583, 1431.

    _See also_ Universities and colleges ——students

Sturges, Gertrude E., 1290

Styles, Fitzhugh L., 146, 944

Styron, William, about, 1002

Suffrage. _See_ Elections, Voting

Sugarman, Tracy, 374

    illus., 145, 374, 897

Suggs, James D., 692

Sussmann, Frederick B., ed., 372

Swint, Henry L., 642

    ed., 923

Sydnor, Charles S., 875

Taeuber, Alma F., 528

Taeuber, Karl E., 528

Tales. _See_ Folk-lore and folk-tales, Short stories

Talley, Marshall A., 1656

Talley, Thomas W., comp., 1377

Talmadge, Herman E., 1550

Tannenbaum, Frank, 788

Tanner, Henry O., about, 952

Taper, Bernard, 1447

Tarry, Ellen, 291- 292

Tate, Thaddeus W., 1645

Tatum, E. Ray, 293

Tatum, Elbert L., 1448

Taylor, Alrutheus A., 924- 925

Taylor, Alva W., 317

Taylor, Deems, 283

Taylor, Joe G., 876

Taylor, Susie K., 1337

Teachers and teaching, 611, 642, 644

    bibliography, 54
    biography (individual), 177, 178, 545, 606, 641
    _See also_ Education; Educators, Private schools, Public
    schools, Universities and colleges

Teaneck, N.J., 573

Ten Broek, Jacobus, 945

Tennessee, 1618b, 1671, 1707

    education, 652
    employment 488
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 710
    politics, 1412, 1438
    public health, 1295
    segregation, 1459, 1536
    slavery, 1633a

Tennis, 154, 204, 1779

Terrell, Mary C., 294

Terry, Paul W., ed., 540

Texas, 165

    economic conditions, 399
    education, 574, 652
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 680- 682, 688
    poetry, 1234
    politics, 212, 1407
    Reconstruction, 913
    slavery, 853
    Southern University, Houston, Library, 49

Texas Folklore Society, 688- 689

Textbooks, bibliography, 29

Theater. _See_ Actors; Drama; Entertainment;  Minstrels, Music;
Musicians,  Plays;  Playwrights

_Theatre Arts_, 668

Theobald, Robert, 1037

13th amendment, about, 56, 931

Thoburn, James M., Bishop, 285

Thomas, Howard E., 375

Thomas, Jesse O., 295

Thomas, Norman, 345

Thomas, Piri, 296

Thomas, Ruby, 111

Thomas, Will, 297

Thompson, Alma M., 50

Thompson, Daniel C., 1309, 1732

Thompson, Edgar T., 50

    ed., 1551

Thompson, Era B., 297a

    ed., 1011
    about, 297a

Thompson, John, 298

Thompson, William, 1309

Thornbrough, Emma L., 1646

    comp., 299

Thorpe, Earl E., 789- 790

Thurman, Howard, 1042, 1378- 1379, 1552

    about, 307

Thurman, Sue B., ed., 391

Thurman, Wallace, 1157- 1158a

Tillman, James A., 529

Tilly, Charles, 530

Tindall, George B., 1563, 1647

Titus, Frances W., 205

Toben, R. L., illus., 683

Tobias, Channing H., 110, 1534

Tolson, Melvin B., 1276- 1278

Tomkins, Silvan S., 1297

Toomer, Jean, 1159

Topeka, Kan., Board of Education, appellee, 579

Toppin, Edgar A., 117, 897

Torrence, Frederic R., 1226

Tourgée, Albion W., about, 260

Toussaint Louverture, François D., about, 120

    fiction, 1056

Towler, Juby E., 1760

Townsend, William H., 791

Trade-unions, 438, 448, 460, 463, 470, 477a, 486, 1533

Traill, Sinclair, 1364

Tredegar Company, Richmond, 814

Trefousse, Hans L., 877

Treworgy, Mildred L., 51

Trillin, Calvin, 643

Trottenberg, Arthur D., 1005

Trotter, James M., 1380

Troup, Cornelius V., 147

Trubowitz, Sidney, 644

Truman, Harry S., 1038

Trumbull Park, Chicago, 497

Truth, Sojourner, about, 120, 161, 205, 266

Tuberculosis, 1304

Tubman, Harriet R., about, 120, 127, 164, 177a

Tucker, Sterling, 531, 1553

Tufts University, Lincoln Filene Center for Citizenship and Public
Affairs, 633

Tulane University of Louisiana, Urban Life Research Institute, 1309

Tumin, Melvin M., 1554

Turner, Arlin, ed., 316

Turner, Darwin T., ed., 972

Turner, Edward R., 877a

Turner, Lorenzo D., 973

    ed., 979

Turner, Lucy M., 1279

Turner, Nat, 809, 840, 878, 1002

Turpin, Waters E., 1160- 1162

Tuskegee, Ala., 201, 1425, 1447

    bibliography, 13

Tuskegee Institute

    about, 227, 257, 301, 656
    Dept. of Records and Research, 12- 13, 52- 54, 591
    Hollis Burke Frissell Library, 62

Tussman, Joseph, ed., 946

Twentieth Century Fund, 485

Twin Cities metropolitan area, 437

Tyms, James D., 1695

Ulmann, Doris, illus., 1727

Underground railroad, 815- 816, 834, 848, 866, 871- 873

United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston, 1648

United Parents Associations of New York City, 622

U.S.

    Advisory Committee on Education, 660
    Army Air Forces, about, 1318
    Bureau of Education. _See_ U.S. Office of Education
    Bureau of Labor Statistics, 416, 422- 423, 479
    Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, about, 241,
    883, 885, 903
    Bureau of the Census, 1733- 1736
    Business and Defense Services Administration, 23
    Children’s Bureau, 1750
    Commission on Civil Rights, 376- 377, 532- 533, 549, 575, 645-
    649, 1449, 1648a, 1761
      South Dakota Advisory Committee, 1338
      State Advisory Committees Division, 488
    Commission to the Paris Exposition, _1900_, 28
    Committee on Fair Employment Practice, about, 449, 481, 483
    Congress
      biography, 1445
      _The Congressional Globe_, 931
      _Congressional Record_, 931
      history, 887
      House
        Committee on Education and Labor, 650- 651
        Select Subcommittee on Labor, 792
        Select Committee on New Orleans Riots, 1587
    Constitution
      1st amendment, about, 346
      13th amendment, about, 56, 931
      14th amendment, about, 57, 363, 496, 654, 931, 934, 945
      15th amendment, about, 57, 931, 1415
    Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare, 424
    Dept. of Housing and Urban Development, Library, 55
    Dept. of Labor
      Division of Negro Economics, 489
      Office of Policy Planning and Research, 1768- 1769
    Dept. of State, 1001
    Dept. of the Army, 467
      Office of Military History, 1324
    Economic Development Administration, about, 398
      history. _See_ History,
    Housing and Home Finance Agency, Office of Program Policy, 534
    Laws, statutes, etc., Civil Rights Act of _1964_, about, 314,
    330, 1022
    Library of Congress, 28, 56
      Division of Bibliography, 57- 58
      Division of Music, 1367
      Photoduplication Service, 38
    Military Academy, West Point, about, 197
    National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, 1586, 1588
    National Archives, 3, 24
    National Center for Educational Statistics, 567
    National Commission on Negro History and Culture, about, 792
    Office of Education, 543, 562, 567, 651a- 652
      Division of Vocational Education, 653
    President, _1961-1963_ (Kennedy), 378
    President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, 439
    President’s Committee on Equal Opportunity in the Armed Forces,
    1339
    Social Security Administration, Division of Research and
    Statistics, 526
    Supreme Court, 946
      about, 547, 550, 940
    Welfare Administration, 1629
    Women’s Bureau, 472

United States Committee for the First World Festival of Negro Arts, 96

_U.S. Negro World_, 66

Universal Negro Improvement Association, 179

Universities and colleges, 565, 581, 590, 598, 604- 605, 615- 616, 623,
634, 652, 659

    directories, 76, 626, 632
    graduates, 457, 571, 577, 587, 605, 623
    statistics, 543
    students, 201, 562- 563, 565, 590, 604, 621, 643

Urban League of Dayton, Ohio, 1391

Urban League of Greater New York, 90

Urban League of Greater Providence, 1594

Urban League of Westchester County, 506

Urban renewal, 1715, 1738- 1739

Vander, Harry J., 1450

Vander Zanden, James W., 1555

Van Deusen, John G., 793

Van Doren, Carl, 206

Van Doren, Charles, 770

Van Dyke, Henry, 1163- 1164

Vanecko, James J., 570

Van Ellison, Candice, 95

Van Vechten, Carl, 1261

Varela, Horace, illus., 115, 724

Varner, Clyde F., ed., 711

Vaughan, Curtis M., 1556

Vesey, Denmark, about, 847

Virginia, 458- 459, 1547, 1618, 1638, 1655

    Commission on Constitutional Government, 654, 931
    crime, 1757, 1759a
    education, 564, 582, 586, 637, 652, 654
    folk-lore and folk-tales, 705
    housing, 512
    politics, 1410, 1433
    Reconstruction, 888, 925
    slavery, 230a, 289, 765, 809, 814, 823, 840, 878, 1645
    slavery fiction, 1100
    University, Library, Tracy W. McGregor Library, 230a

Voegeli, V. Jacque, 794

Vollmar, William J., 1628

Voodooism, 697, 702a, 704

Voorhis, Harold V., 1396

Vose, Clement E., 535

Voting, 1402- 1403, 1412, 1415, 1425, 1428- 1429, 1432, 1438, 1441,
1443, 1446, 1449, 1451a, 1453, 1533

    bibliography, 57

Vroman, Mary E., 1396a

WINS. _See_ Women’s Integrating Neighborhood Services

Wachtel, Dawn, 490

Wade, Richard C., 879, 1563

    ed., 795

Wagandt, Charles L., 796

Wagner, Jean, 974

Wain, Louis, illus., 702a

Walker, A. B., illus., 677a

Walker, David, 810, 880

Walker, Maggie L., about, 114, 134

Walker, Margaret, 1165, 1280

Walker, Marion E., ed., 1590

Wallace, Daniel W., about, 165

Wallace, Jesse T., 1451

Wallace, John, 926

Waller, Fats, about, 140, 1364

Walrond, Eric, 1166

Wanless, Julia, 752

War of 1812, 1343

Ward, Samuel R., 300

Ward, Thomas P., 1167

Wardlaw, Ralph W., 1451a

Ware, Charles P., comp., 1344

Warner, Robert A., 1648b

Warner, William L., ed., 1709

Warren, Francis H., comp., 1623

Warren, Robert Penn, 379, 1557

Washington, Booker T., 218, 301, 425, 434, 655, 797, 1039- 1040, 1737

    ed., 656
    about, 120, 214, 287, 299, 767, 952

Washington, Mrs. Booker T., 70

Washington, Chester L., 239

Washington, Ernest Davidson, ed., 1040

Washington, George, about, 765

    fiction, 1100

Washington, Jennie, illus., 195

Washington, John E., 148

Washington, Joseph R., 1696- 1697

Washington, Josephine T., 142

Washington, Nathaniel J., 1649

Washington (State), 521

Washington, D.C., 1619, 1752, 1767

    Dunbar High School, 600
    education, 572, 593, 600, 657
    Federation of Churches, Interracial Committee, 511
    Frederick Douglass Memorial Home, 17
    housing, 511, 532
    Ordinances, etc., 942
    public health, 1289
    Reconstruction, 927
    riots, 1576
    White House, 256, 264
    _See also_ District of Columbia

Washington Center for Metropolitan Studies, Washington, D.C., 657

_The Washington Post_, 1576

Waskow, Arthur I., 1591

Watkins, Sylvestre C., ed., 992

Watters, Pat, 1452

Watts, Calif., 1571- 1575

Watts Writers’ Workshop, 993

Waxman, Julia, 1

Waynick, Capus M., ed., 1650

Ways, Max, 415

Weatherby, William J., 1558, 1632

Weatherford, Willis D., 1559, 1698

Weaver, Robert C., 415, 536, 600, 1481, 1738- 1739

    bibliography, 55

Webb, Constance, 302

Webb, Frank J., 1168

Weeks, Stephen B., 1453

Wegelin, Oscar, 1281

Weinberg, Kenneth G., 1454

Weinberg, Meyer, 59

    comp., 658
    ed., 602

Welch, Norval, 258

Welsch, Erwin K., 60

Wesley, Charles H., 303, 491, 798- 799, 804, 1340- 1341, 1397- 1399,
1429

    ed., 799

Wesson, William H., 469

West, Dorothy, 1169

The West, 159, 198, 240, 1322

West Virginia, 1634

    Bureau of Negro Welfare and Statistics, 537
    education, 652
    housing, 537

Westchester Co., N.Y., 506

Westin, Alan F., ed., 1041

Weyl, Nathaniel, 800

Whaley, Marcellus S., 1651

Wharton, Vernon L., 1563, 1652

Wheatley, Phillis, 16, 1282- 1284

    bibliography, 16, 46
    about, 120, 952
    fiction, 1095

White, Charles, 97

White, Newman Ivey, ed., 1284a

White, Ralph, illus., 682

White, Walter F., 304, 1170- 1171, 1290, 1560- 1561

    about, 118, 134

White House, 256, 264

Whiteman, Maxwell, 61

Whiting, Helen A. J., 426

Whyte, James H., 927

Wicker, Tom, 1588

Wiggins, James R., 325a

Wiggins, Samuel P., 659

Wightman, Orrin S., 1653

Wilberforce Negro Colony, Middlesex County, Ont., about, 289

Wilberforce University, Wilberforce, Ohio, 614.

    _See also_ Ohio, Central State College, Wilberforce

Wiley, Bell I., 1740

Wilkerson, Doxey A., 584, 660

Wilkins, Roy, 229

    about, 127

Williams, Chancellor, 1172

Williams, Daniel H., about, 171

Williams, Daniel T., 62

Williams, Edgar, 1781

Williams, Egbert A. (Bert), about, 140, 279

Williams, Eric, 799

Williams, Ethel L., 80

Williams, George W., 801, 928, 1342

Williams, John A., 1173- 1175

    comp., 994

Williams, John G., 1741

Williams, Lacey K., 196

Williams, Martin T., 1381

Williams, O. R., 1562

Williams, Robert F., 380

Williams, R. M., 1563

Williams, Sally, about, 155

Williamsburg, Va., 1645

Williamson, Joel, 929, 1563

    comp., 1563

Williamson, Margaret T., illus., 1370

Willis, Pauline, 111

Wilmington, Del., 530

Wilson, Charles H., 661

Wilson, James Q., 1406, 1420, 1455

Wilson, Joseph T., 930, 1285, 1343

Wilson, Theodore B., 947

Wiltse, Charles M., ed., 880

Winslow, Eugene, illus., 98

Winston, Ellen E. B., 420

Winston-Salem, N.C., 1427

Wisconsin, 1593, 1628, 1630

    employment, 488
    Governor’s Commission on Human Rights, 1770
    State Historical Society, 774
    State University, Stevens Point, 6
    University, Milwaukee, School of Social Work, 1630

Wish, Harvey, ed., 881, 1043

Wit and humor. _See_ Humor.

Witchen, Elsie, 1304

Wolff, Reinhold P., 538

Wolfgang, Marvin E., 1762

Women

    biography (collective), 105, 111, 114- 115, 126, 142
    education, 571, 627
    employment, 472

Women’s Integrating Neighborhood Services, 495

Wood, Forrest G., 1564

Wood, M. S., comp., 129

Woodson, Carter G., 427, 453, 492, 662, 802, 804- 805, 1699, 1742- 1743

    ed., 803, 1044

Woodward, Comer Vann, 806, 1563, 1565, 1636

    ed., 397, 832

Woodward, Joseph H., 1700

Woofter, Thomas J., 539, 1566

    ed., 1744

Work, F. J., 1617

Work, Monroe N., 63, 1758

    ed., 75

Work Conference on Curriculum and Teaching in Depressed Urban Areas,
Columbia University, _1962_, 663

Workman, Willie M. C., about, 234

World Festival of Negro Arts, 1st, Dakar, _1966_, 96

World War, _1939-1945_, 1313, 1318, 1324

    fiction, 1126

Wright, Bruce M., ed., 1244

Wright, Charles S., 1176- 1177

Wright, James M., 1654

Wright, John J., 321

Wright, Louis T., about, 134

Wright, Marion M. T., 664

Wright, Nathan, 381, 1567- 1568

Wright, Richard, 305, 1034, 1178- 1183, 1227, 1569, 1607

    about, 118, 302, 966- 967

Wright, Richard R., 149, 306

    ed., 81

Wright, Stephen J., 996

Writers’ Program

    Georgia, 708
    South Carolina, 709
    Tennessee, 710
    Virginia, 14

Wylie, Evan M., 230

Wynes, Charles E., 1563, 1655

    ed., 807, 1618

Wynn, Daniel W., 1400

X, Malcolm. _See_ Little, Malcolm

Yale University, Institute of Human Relations, 1648b

Yancey, William L., 1768

Yates, Elizabeth, 307

Yearbooks, 74- 75, 1701

Yellin, Robert, illus., 1346

Yerby, Frank, 1184-1199

Yergan, Max, about, 134

Yoder, Don, 699

Young, Andrew S. N. ("Doc"), 150, 308, 1780

Young, Whitney M., 295, 338, 382

    about, 127

Young Women’s Christian Association, 1509

Younge, Sammy, about, 201

Youth, 1299, 1612, 1719

    bibliography, 40
    _See also_ Children; Students

Yulsman, Jerry, illus., 1200 - 1201

Zangrando, Robert L., comp., 312

Zilversmit, Arthur, 882

Zinkoff, Dave, 1781

Zinn, Howard, 1401, 1569a




Transcriber’s Note


Additional Library of Congress call numbers are indicated by [TR: ].

